### Andrew Garber
### February 10 2023
### Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, and Stoicism 

# Foreword
This examination of Marcus Aurelius and his personal journal, today known as "Meditations", is being done with a modern translation of the work, specifically the 2003 Gregory Hays translation. This edition, one of many, was chosen for its readability and faithfulness to the original text. More than that, a large number of the quotes attributed to Marcus Aurelius come from this translation and so it is the one that is most familiar to the majority of readers. 
In the context of modern English, the word "stoic"(note the lowercase *s*) means " one apparently or professedly indifferent to pleasure or pain"(Merriam Webster). However in this context, Stoic(note the uppercase *S*) is used to describe, "a member of a school of philosophy founded by Zeno of Citium about 300 b.c. holding that the wise man should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and submissive to natural law"(Merriam Webster). The lowercase version of the word has only tangential relation to the philosophy of the school of Stoicism, so conscious effort should be made to separate the two.

# Who was Marcus Aurelius?

Marcus Aurelius Antoninus born in 121 AD, and ruler of the Roman Empire from 161 to 180 AD was the last of the "Five Good Emperors" and the greatest embodiment of Plato's immortal call that, "States will never be happy until rulers become philosophers or philosophers become rulers." Born Marcus Catilius Severus Annius Verus, his father Verus died when he was only three years old leaving him to be raised by his grandfathers who were members of the emperor Hadrian's court. Marcus did indeed come from noble stock, his grandfather at the time of his birth was in his second tenure as consul. Few would have expected Marcus to rise to the Imperial Purple however, and only through a convoluted scheme on the behalf of the Emperor Hadrian, did he do so. Following the death of his planned heir, Lucius Ceionius Commodus, Hadrian adopted the childless senator Antonius who then adopted Marcus. This was a common practice, and was meant to ensure longer term stability of the Empire. It may have seemed odd that Marcus was chosen to be raised to the Imperial Purple, but Marcus' reputation for honesty had been growing since he was a child. In fact, Hadrian nicknamed him "Verissimus" - *the truest one* - and had been keeping an eye on him for some years. His path for the purple was set, but it remained to be seen what kind of emperor he would be.

# Marcus's Path To Philosophy
Marcus's path to philosophy can be credited to the tutors that he had during his youth. As Ryan Holiday and Stephen Hanselman write in their book, "Lives of the Stoics", "By the time Marcus was ten or eleven, he had already taken to philosophy, dressing the part in humble, rough clothing and living with sober and restrained habits,"(280). This extraordinary commitment to philosophy at such a young age was likely a notable factor in Hadrian's decision to put him on a path to the Purple. We know little about his early childhood tutors, but following his adoption by Hadrian he was tutored by some of the most educated men of his time including Herodes Atticus, Marcus Cornelius Fronto - many of his letters with Marcus survive and paint a picture of his increasing interest in philosophy, and the philosopher Junius Rusticus.
### Sources:
 - [Merrian Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/stoic)
 - [Lives of the Stoics - Ryan Holiday and Stephen Hanselman]()