### Andrew Garber
### May 23
### Independent Study on The Structure and Effects of the Global Integration of Geopolitical Boundaries 

#### Premise, preconditions, and preliminary questions to be answered:
 - The world is becoming more and more globalized and intertwined internationally through trade, communication, and travel.
 - This paper is not about the political, economic, or military causes of the creation of a singular global nation, encompassing all of the world's people, but rather the effects of this and to suggest a potential structure for this global nation.
 - Basic preconditions for this exploration are that in the process of this happening, no disaster occurs that would dramatically affect the world's population(nuclear war, etc.) and that the people of the world do genuinely desire a democratic, peaceful, and unified world(I do not think that this is hard to believe, though I do think that many leaders oppose this simply for their own reason.).
 - Questions to be answered include: 
  1. What kind of economic growth would be a direct effect of no tariffs, or economic barriers between peoples? 
	2. How would a political structure allow for multiculturalism without implicitly adopting the cultural norms of a dominant political group?
	3. What kind of democratic political structure would best fit such an expansive nation, with wide disparities in income, cultural norms, and stability?
	4. How would this political system balance the political power of extremely wealthy, but comparatively small populations of Europe and North America with the far less wealthy, but extremely populus regions of Asia, South America, and Africa?
	5. How would this political system ensure rapid development of the less developed regions of the world, while not allowing the more developed regions to stagnate or have their resources drained for the effort?
	6. How would the holdouts of previous legal systems, intellectual property laws, and other highly specific things dependent on previous political entities that no longer exist be equitably integrated into the new system without causing massive economic and political disruption?
	7. How would the debts of previous political entities be handled, especially when the debt is owed from a political entity that no longer exists to another political entity that no longer exists?


-----

### **Secondary Outline Facts - June 12**

##### **Thesis**: A discussion of the preconditions, potential economic and political structure, and projected effects of a singular global nation.

#### **Terminology**
 - "Singular Global Nation" - While this term does not describe the structure of the nation in question, it does describe the totality of it better than anything else in modern political vernacular. This term is the best to use because it isn't a "union" in any modern sense, like the European Union, which has an implicit right of secession. It is a nation in the sense that the United States is a nation, with a single government, and a single set of laws - with regional differences in subdivisions of the nation, like provinces or states - but no right of secession. It is a single polity, that encompasses the whole geographical world, and all of the people in it.


#### **What isn't strictly relevant, and thus will be ignored.**
 - This isn't a paper about the potential scenario that led to a singular global nation - that would be a fiction novel, which while interesting isn't in accordance with the discussion at hand.
 - A discussion of military matters - a potential command structure, and even the need for a military at all with a unified world - is not relevant to the discussion of political and economic structures, and will be studiously ignored. For that reason, military expenditures will not be calculated into potential taxation schemes as costs for the government. This is not an endorsement or refutation of a non-military state, it is simply outside the scope of the paper.

#### **Preconditions**
 - For the purposes of the paper, some preconditions are necessary to be assumed, as they are not the focus of the paper, and going into depth about how each of them came about would once more be a fiction novel.
 - It must be assumed that the world is still fundamentally the same as a result of the integration, no large-scale pandemic has wiped out large portions of the earth and no nuclear war has left the world a shell of its former self.
 - It must be assumed that the civil structures that governed the world before the unification are still in place, to continue the administration of the world while new structures are built to replace them.
 - It must be assumed that the people of the world want to be united as a single global entity - even if their leaders oppose it for sentimental or self-interested reasons. 
 - It must be assumed that the people of the world want a democratic, peaceful, and unified world - not a world ruled by a single dictator, or united by conquest.
 - It must be assumed that the wealthy nations of the world would have to make promises, effectively bribes, to the less wealthy nations of the world to accept the dissolution of their own political entities. What these promises might be will be a topic in the paper, and is fundamental to a discussion of a potential political and economic structure - but without them, it is not logical to assume that the less wealthy nations would accept the dissolution of their own political entities.
  
#### **Main Topics**
 - What are the relative merits of different political systems through economic, political, cultural, and developmental lenses? This should be done through case studies on nations that have adopted different political and economic systems, and how they have fared relatively with them. A determination can then be made whether that specific system would be a good fit for a singular global nation, or why it is inadequate for the purposes of such an expansive nation. An example of this would be why Switzerland isn't a member of the EU, but is a member of the Schengen Area, and why the structure of a global nation would be better for Switzerland than the EU.
 - ##### **Economic**
   - How would the relative numerical superiority of the less wealthy areas of the global nation be balanced with the wealthy, but numerical inferiority of the wealthiest areas? 
	   - The crux of the problem is that due to the overwhelming number of less wealthy citizens, an over-allocation of funds to the less-wealthy areas - especially when considering the smaller tax contribution of those areas - would be the result of a democratic allocation method. The best solution to this is a three-tiered system, wherein local governments(local municipalities, and provinces) each set their own taxes, and the global legislature apportions money as it will. When considering the lower costs of labor and many goods in the less wealthy parts of the world, the same taxation rates in the wealthy and less wealthy parts of the world will produce similar results. The best case study here would be German reunification, with a far wealthier west than the previously Soviet East.
   - How would representation be allocated to ensure that the wealth of the wealthy areas is not drained to the less wealthy areas, while still ensuring that the less wealthy areas are able to develop and grow with the help of the wealthy areas?
	   - There is no way to allocate representation on anything but a one-person-one-vote basis, that wouldn't bring the Global Nation to a crisis as soon as the less-wealthy areas of the world became any wealthier. For example, if you apportioned voting power according to the income of a citizen at the dawn of the global nation, as soon as a previously poor area became wealthy and highly developed, the citizens would scream out for greater voting power. In addition, this also gives poor incentives to the wealthy areas of the world, as they would be incentivized to hinder the development of the poor areas in order to protect their own political power. Thus, the only workable solution is to allocate votes on a one-person-one-vote basis.
   - Is a short-term "tax", a wealth drain effectively, on the wealthiest areas to bring the less wealthy areas up to a certain standard of living, necessary to ensure stability and equal representation in the long term?
	   - A case study on the Marshall Plan would fit this question perfectly.
   - How would a second "rape of Africa" be prevented, where the resources of the less wealthy areas are sucked out by global corporations, as well as a mass "brain-drain" of the most educated and skilled people from the less wealthy areas to the wealthy areas? 
	   - For the first part of the question regarding the "second rape of Africa", I don't know. I am going to search for sources on this, though I think a point about comparative advantage would be warranted here. As well as this, given the interconnectedness of the world, it isn't unreasonable to believe that if the current global corporations wanted to "rape" a poor nation's resources, they might well have done so. 
	   - For the second point, the best solution to hindering a massive brain drain would be funding from the global government (likely a direct grant to more local governments) to incentive the mass construction of educational facilities and incentives to banks and venture capitalists to fund new industries across the poorer areas of the world. These highly-skilled individuals could thus be incentivized to stay through the economic opportunities of starting their own businesses, something they would be in a prime position to do, or become highly paid (relative to cost of living) professors and teachers of their skills.
   - What kind of specific education reform would be necessary to ensure that hundreds of millions of people, specifically adults, who have never had access to a formal education, are able to participate in the new global economy?
 - ##### **Systemic**
   - Are some of these problems inherent to the structure of a singular global nation, and thus must be accepted as a cost of the system - at least in the short term - or are there ways to mitigate these problems in ways that don't bring about the red-tape and bureaucracy that the global nation is being formed to avoid?
   - What kind of growth: economically, politically, socially, demographically, and technologically would be a direct effect of the integration of the world into a singular global nation?
   - How would hold-outs from the previous political entities be handled in the new global nation, most notably patents, intellectual property, and national debts?
   - Is the only just solution to many of the thornier problems, aside from those in which it absolutely must be established beforehand, to allow the new global nation to develop organically through the election of representatives to the representative body(ies) of the global nation, and the subsequent development of a constitution and laws? In order for this to be true, the nature of the representative body(ies) must be established beforehand, as well as the structure of representation, but the actual laws and constitution would be developed by the representatives of the people of the world.
 - ##### **Cultural and Demographic**
   - How does the political structure of the new global nation prevent the dominance of a single culture, or the dominance of a single political entity on the lines of culture, while still allowing for the expression of the cultures of the world's people?
   - How would cultural "checks and balances" be made to allow for the free expression of culture, while preventing what might be seen as gross oppression in one culture or as totally normal in another? For example, many fundamentalist Islamic nations believe that the education of girls and women is an affront - something that is accepted as not only commonplace but just(and beneficial to society) by the rest of the world - how would this be handled in a global nation? This point will be heavily tied to a discussion of the political philosophy of the nation, specifically a political view of ethical relativism vs. ethical absolutism.