### Andrew Garber
### Started March 30 2023,
### Source List for Independent Study Project | Single Global Nation | 11th&12Th Grade


 - Bismarck: A Life by Jonathan Steinberg
    - Notes: Bismarck was a foundational pillar of 19th(and early 20th) century political change, and fundamentally rewrote the map of Europe through Prussian expansion. His changes to the governance of Germany, under the Prussian Empire, deserve note for how it integrated states into a combined federal system with overarching 'departments' out of what were independent states.
    - Zollverein: The Zollverein was a customs union between the German states, excluding Austria, which was created in 1834. It was a precursor to the Prussia Empire, and was a major factor in the unification of Germany. It created the foundation on which Bismarck could convince, threaten, or conquer the other German states into the Prussian Empire.
 - [Declaration of St James Palace](https://avalon.law.yale.edu/imt/imtjames.asp)
    - Notes: A joint statement by the representatives of 26 nations(known as the United Nations, or Allies in WWII). It outlined the goals of the Allies in the war, and was the first step towards the creation of the United Nations. The signatories of the declaration pledged to work together to defeat the Axis powers, which included Germany, Japan, and Italy(along with lesser powers like Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, and Slovakia - despite them not being named.), and to uphold the principles of the Atlantic Charter, which was issued by the United States and Great Britain a few months later in August 1941. The declaration also condemned the Axis powers' aggression and emphasized the importance of protecting freedom, democracy, and human rights. Useful for a discussion of the importance of international cooperation and collaboration in the face of a common threat, and the importance of a common set of values and standards to unite nations.
 - [UN CHARTER](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/un-charter/full-text)
    - Notes:
 - The Wealth of Nations by Adam Smith[Home Copy]
    - Notes: The Wealth of Nations is the foundational text of modern economic theory, postulating the existence of an "invisible hand", the self-interest of individuals which in aggregate is in the interest of the many. It also outlines the importance of free trade, and the dangers of monopolies(which by definition calls for some intervention by government in the economy to enable a "level playing field"). He also goes on at some length about why tariffs are extremely harmful to an economy and the world at large. Smith believed that when countries engage in free trade, they can specialize in producing goods and services that they are most efficient at producing, and then trade with other countries for goods and services that they are less efficient at producing. This specialization and trade lead to increased productivity, greater efficiency, and ultimately, higher standards of living for all involved - by trying to arbitrarily protect domestic industries that produce goods inefficiently in comparison to other countries, countries are only hurting themselves. 
 - [BRICS - Brazilian Government](https://www.ipea.gov.br/forumbrics/en/learn-about-brics.html#:~:text=As%20a%20group%2C%20BRICS%20has,funds%20to%20finance%20its%20activities.)
    - Notes: BRICS is a trade block between Brazil, Russia, China, India, and South Africa. It was founded in 2006 and has led to significant economic growth in some member countries - though not without issue. It has been used, at least to some extent to avoid sanctions on Russia following their invasion of Ukraine and by China as an expedient method for debt-trap diplomacy.
 - [League of Nations Charter](https://libraryresources.unog.ch/ld.php?content_id=32971179)
    - Notes: The League of Nations was a post-WWI attempt at a global organization to prevent future wars. It was largely ineffective for a number of reasons, most notably the fact that it had no "teeth" other than offering negotiation, arbitration, or adjudication between two member states - at which point the aggressor country was free to leave. The League was open to all sovereign nations, except those that had been engaged in aggression and refused to participate in efforts to resolve disputes peacefully. The League had the power to impose economic and military sanctions on any member state that engaged in aggression or violated the organization's rules and principles, though the organization had no way of forcing the member states to comply.
 - [Versailles Treaty](https://avalon.law.yale.edu/subject_menus/versailles_menu.asp)
    - Notes: The Treaty of Versailles marked the end of WWI. The treaty was designed to punish Germany for its role in the war and to prevent it from becoming a major military power again. Germany was forced to cede territories to France, Belgium, Denmark, and Poland, and its overseas colonies were placed under the control of the Allied powers. Germany was required to limit its military forces to 100,000 men, and its navy was reduced to a few small vessels. It was also prohibited from developing certain types of weapons and fortifications. Germany was also required to pay 132 billion gold marks in reparations to the Allied powers, a sum they absolutely could not pay. Germany was also forced to accept full responsibility for starting the war, despite the fact they didn't.
 - [European Coal and Steel Community](https://eur-lex.europa.eu/EN/legal-content/summary/treaty-establishing-the-european-coal-and-steel-community-ecsc-treaty.html)
    - Notes: The aim of the treaty, as stated in Article 2, was to contribute, through the common market for coal and steel, to economic expansion, employment, and better living standards. Thus, the institutions had to ensure an orderly supply of coal and steel to the common market by ensuring equal access to the sources of production, the establishment of the lowest prices, and improved working conditions. All of this had to be accompanied by the growth in international trade and the modernization of production. It was the first step towards the creation of the European Union, a supranational state which is the closest a single entity has come to being a global nation to date.
 - [EU CHARTER OF FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS](https://commission.europa.eu/aid-development-cooperation-fundamental-rights/your-rights-eu/eu-charter-fundamental-rights_en)
    - Notes: The charter highlights the importance of cooperation and collaboration among nations and regions. By working together to establish common values and standards, the EU and other regions could build stronger ties and promote greater understanding and mutual respect. It also lays out the rights of the citizens of the EU, and the responsibilities of the member states to their citizens - it establishes a common set of values, though not virtues which would be needed for a truly global nation, to provide a common community for the people of Europe.
 - [EEA](https://trade.ec.europa.eu/access-to-markets/en/content/european-economic-area-eea-agreement)
    - Notes:The EEA Charter is an example of how regional agreements can establish common values and standards for the protection of human rights and the promotion of democracy. While the EEA is not a political union like the EU, it still provides a framework for cooperation and collaboration among member states based on shared values and principles. It also underscores the importance of economic cooperation and integration as a means of promoting social and economic progress. By participating in the EU's single market, EEA member states have access to a larger market and greater opportunities for trade and investment, which can contribute to economic growth and job creation - both of which are the most highly correlated statistics to human prosperity.
 - [The Louisiana Purchase](https://www.archives.gov/exhibits/american_originals/louistxt.html)
    - Notes: The Louisiana Purchase marked a significant expansion of the US's territorial holdings, which laid the groundwork for its future growth and development. As the US expanded westward, it created new opportunities for settlement, commerce, and cultural exchange, and helped to shape the nation's identity and character. This kind of expansion in the scope of a global nation would take the form of new states joining the global union. Ensuring that an immediate flow of resources and trade is maintained between the new and older parts of the global union is critical to ensuring that the new states are able to integrate into the global union and contribute to its growth and development.
 - [North American Free Trade Agreement](https://www.trade.gov/north-american-free-trade-agreement-nafta)
    - Notes:The North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) was a trilateral trade agreement between the United States, Canada, and Mexico, signed in 1994. The agreement eliminated most tariffs and other trade barriers among the three countries, and also included provisions related to intellectual property, labor standards, and environmental protection. This kind of free trade agreement, though not allowing for quite as much movement as EEA or EU membership, is a good comparison point for North American history of international cooperation and integration. It also highlights the importance of free trade and the benefits it can bring to all parties involved.
 - [Political Unification Revisited: On Building Supranational Communities by Amitai Etzioni]
    - Notes: Not A Helpful Source
 - [Anarchy, State, and Utopia by Robert Nozick]
    - Notes: While the aims are commendable, and I agree with the general philosophy that a state should approach zero interference in the lives of its citizens, that is impractical to implement. More than this, I believe that there is a societal pressure for some measures to be taken to ensure a basic standard of living for its citizens - if only because in democracies across the world, voters have consistently shown their support for these. The societal justification for this is the consent of the governed, in this case. If the people consistently voted against it, it would be justified to go without it.
    - I do agree with him that the government should be limited in its scope, though his justification of the scope is too narrow - it fails to include even basic things like infrastructure that wouldn't be built by the free market anyway, but is necessary for the growth of that market. I fall more in line with the philosophy of Adam Smith in this regard, and Milton Friedman too for that matter.
    - [The Common Security and Defense Policy](https://www.eeas.europa.eu/eeas/common-security-and-defence-policy_en)
    - [The Common Security and Defense Policy](https://www.europarl.europa.eu/factsheets/en/sheet/159/common-security-and-defence-policy)
      - Notes: The Common Security and Defense Policy(CSDP) is the EU's foreign policy arm. It is designed to create a common foreign policy for the EU, so that the EU can be seen as a more coherent actor on the world stage. Specifically, it is divided into three areas: Civil Protection, Crisis Management, and Defense. While these, by their nature, have overlapping and frequently congruent goals, they are distinct in their aims and methods. The policy has proven to be somewhat ineffective, as the war in Ukraine showed the EU's inability to centralize and coordinate a single foreign policy for all of its states. The de-facto veto power of single state(Hungary, in this case) to steer policy, or block it, has proven to be a major stumbling block for the EU's ability to use the CSDP effectively to aid Ukraine.