#### Andrew Garber
#### June 9 - 
#### The Political Commentary of W.S Gilbert in 'When I Was A Lad' in H.M.S Pinafore

Thesis: W.S Gilbert mixed astute political commentary on the western political world at large and the British political system in specific while satirizing the characters in these systems using characters like Sir Joseph Porter, the First Lord of the Admiralty.

W.S Gilbert and Arthur Sullivan, in their play *H.M.S Pinafore* which premiered in 1878 told the story of a young woman who falls in love with a lower class sailor aboard her father's ship - leading to a discussion of class in society. More notable however than the overlaid discussion of social class and economic prosperity in the love lives of people across Victorian England, is the satire Gilbert laid upon the political system of the time. Gilbert mixed astute political commentary on the western political world at large and the British political system in specific while satirizing the characters in these systems using characters like Sir Joseph Porter, the First Lord of the Admiralty. In the song, "When I Was A Lad" which tells the story of how the Sir Joseph rose through the ranks of his career , first as a clerk and then lawyer and eventually becoming a politician leading to his appointment as the First Lord Of The Admiralty. However he had no experience and was not at all qualified for the job, proving to be Gilbert's sharpest rebuke and most astute satire of Victorian politics and the politics of the western world.

Perhaps the single most damming statement on Sir Joseph's abilities to be the leader of the British Navy is one he delivers, when he says, "Of legal knowledge I acquired such a grip - That they took me into the partnership. - And that junior partnership, I ween, - Was the only ship that I ever had seen. ... But that kind of ship so suited me, - That now I am the ruler of the Queen's Navee!" Gilbert's description of Sir Joseph is incredibly similar to that of William Henry Smith who had been a parliamentarian who was later appointed the First Lord of The Admiralty. The son of the famous W.H Smith, a major bookseller in Britain, upon his appointment to lead the British Navy he was scoffed at and derided by Admirals and Ship Captains as well as the parliament for his total lack of knowledge. Gilbert saw this as the perfect example of nepotism and the failings of the political system of the time, leading to an almost one-to-one recreation of Smith as Sir Joseph led to a lawsuit and claims of defamation. Due to the incredible success of *H.M.S Pinafore*, and the broad public agreement with the views on politics the play espoused, when Smith went to launch a new ship for the Navy at Devenport, "When I Was A Lad" was played to mock him. Gilbert's statement on politics and the use of Sir Joseph is not motivated by any personal hatred of Smith, but of the system that allowed him to become First Lord of the Admiralty. Gilbert was a notable populist, and was attacking the aristocratic traditions that underpinned Victorian politics, and was widespread across the fledgling democracies of Europe and North America.

The other great statement Gilbert makes in opposition to aristocracy and in favor of meritocracy comes just one stanza below, saying, "I grew so rich that I was sent - By a pocket borough into Parliament. - I always voted at my party's call, - And I never thought of thinking for myself at all. - (He never thought of thinking for himself at all.) - I thought so little, they rewarded me - By making me the Ruler of the Queen's Navee!" This not only attacks the nepotism that allowed him to rise as a Parliamentarian, by completely abandoning the principles of an elected official and serving the political party he was devoted to and not the state to which he belonged, but the undemocratic method by which he was elected in the first place. A "pocket borough" was an agreement that tenants signed as part of their lease saying that they would vote at the direction of the landowner, frequently telling them to vote for the landowner himself alluding to Sir Joseph having basically bought himself into parliament. This further expresses Gilbert's views on aristocracy and begins to delve into issues of social class and representation, two issues which are central to the story in *H.M.S Pinafore* through Ralph and Josephine's forbidden love due to their differences in wealth and the political nature of upper-class marriages.

In conclusion, "When I Was A Lad", one of *H.M.S Pinafore's* most political songs outlines the background of Sir Joseph Porter and how he rose from a junior clerk at a law firm to the leader of Britain's navy, all while never having actually served in the military - it houses some of W.S Gilbert's most astute political commentary, making important statements on why as citizens of democracy we should not let politicians who believe in their own personal gain take leadership over servants of the public good. It also encapsulates Gilbert's strong views on the problems of an aristocratic tradition in a Democratic society and the value of an informed and unbiased citizenry who take an active interest in the successes and accountability of their public servants.