### Andrew Garber
### February 8 2023
### Western Civilization 2 Summary Session
### The Great Elector: Frederick William

> PROMPT: In 3-4 paragraphs, summary session style, please enlighten me on some biographical information regarding Frederick William.  Brief inclusion of his family / youth and then: 
> - WHY and then HOW he transformed the loose collection of states into Prussia
> - discuss his STATESMANSHIP on the continent as well as his military acumen
> - what were the PLUSES and MINUSES of his reign  -- governance, structures he created within Prussia, sociological/economic programs/changes encouraged etc. 

### Summary Session:
Frederick William, the Great Elector[^1], was the first great Prussian statesman and would lead to the expansion and consolidation of the Prussian state as a regional power on the rise. Born in 1620, he was the son of George William, the Elector of Brandenburg, and Elizabeth Charlotte of the Palatinate[^2], and would grow up during the strife of the Thirty Years War which would ravage Brandenburg. In the words of Christopher Clark, author of *Iron Kingdom: The Rise and Downfall of Prussia, 1600-1947*, "For the people of Brandenburg, the war meant lawlessness, misery, poverty, deprivation, forced migration, and death."(Clark, p. 30). This was the environment that the young Frederick William would grow up in, leading to much of his childhood being spent in the fortress of Küstrin and then in the Dutch Republic. While he kept no diary, it is clear that his time in the Dutch Republic at the court of his future father-in-law would have a profound impact on him--notably in the areas of commercial power, and military technology. A foundational point for understanding Frederick William, and much of Prussian history, is the religious strife present across Europe but especially in the Holy Roman Empire. The Hohenzollerns were Calvinists, a stringent form of Protestantism, and the Thirty Years War was a conflict between the Catholic and Protestant states of the Holy Roman Empire, with external powers also getting involved. The Calvinism of the Hohenzollerns is key to understanding the policies and politics of Frederick William, as who he could find alliances with and who he could not was largely determined by religion. 

Upon the death of his father George William, who Clark quotes Frederick the Great as referring to him as "incapable of governing", Frederick William would take up the reins of power in 1640. At the time of his ascension, he could not even govern from Brandenburg, instead from Konigsberg[^3] which was the capital of the Duchy of Prussia. His first step in the reconstruction of Prussia(the state, not the region exclusively) was to maintain a cautious neutrality, signing an armistice with Sweden and discharging his troops to the service of the Holy Roman Emperor. While discharging his troops was a necessity politically and economically, by 1644 he realized that he could never maintain his state without a standing army so began reconstuting the force. None of the estates under Frederick William's rule(Prussia was at the time, and for centuries after, a loose smattering of territories across modern-day Germany and Poland) were wealthy enough to support an army on their own, so by combining the wealth and resources of all of them he managed to form a moderately sized army. This was the first time that the Prussian state had a unified influence across its territories through the person of the Elector, and would be the foundation of the Prussian state. As Voltaire's famous quip goes, "Where most states have an army, the Prussian army has a state."

While this army was foundational for the creation of a Prussian state and the maintenance of its domain, it was not enough to back up a foreign policy designed to increase the size and power of Prussia. To assist in this, he married Louise Henriette of Orange-Nassau, the daughter of Frederick Henry, whose court he had spent most of his time in the Dutch Republic. Despite this gain in international prestige, Prussia's allotment at the Peace of Westphalia was not nearly as large as Frederick William had hoped. He had hoped for all of Pomerania, and most importantly the harbor of Stettin, but was only granted the eastern half of the territory and the dioces of Minden and Halberstadt. This was a disappointment, but he continued to work on consolidating his power and rebuilding his territories. Seven years after Westphalia he was forced to join King Charles X Gustav of Sweden in the First Northern War, and after switching sides he was able to secure the Duchy of Prussia as an independent and hereditary title for the Hohenzollerns. 

The military campaigning of Frederick did not stop there, as part of the Franco-Dutch war would come to include Brandenburg(which was still the primary title of the Hohenzollerns at the time, not yet Prussia as an entity) Sweden was called in to help the French by taking out Brandenburg who were on the side of the Dutch. After winning a minor victory at Fehrbellin, Frederick William was able to secure most of Pomerania *again* but was forced to give it up at the peace of Saint-Germain-En-Laye. His final great political move near the end of his life was making an alliance/agreement with the French in exchange for large sums of money to support French-backed candidates in elections in both the Holy Roman Empire and in Poland in the eventual hope of gaining Pomerania. After realizing that France was never going to support his gaining Pomerania he switched sides to ally with the Dutch, as William of Orange(later King William III of England) was his nephew. This finally gave Prussia some degree of security and helped maintain a local balance of power such that Prussia could continue to grow. One of his final acts was to allow all Huguenots expelled from France to settle in Brandenburg-Prussia, allowing for a large influx of skilled workers and artisans. 

He did not survive to see the full fruits of his labor, never able to ensure a full connection between Brandenburg and Prussia nor gain the ports of Pomerania. However, his efforts in the reconstruction of his realm and the creation of an efficient, disciplined, and well-equipped army would leave the longest-lasting legacy of his reign. The army he constructed would, in essence, be the same army that Bismarck[^5] would use to unify Germany in the 19th century and found the Prussian Empire. The state and army he left his son Frederick(who would later become Frederick I, king in Prrusia[^4]) were well-managed institutions that would allow him to continue the expansion of Prussia territorially, politically, and economically into a strong regional power in continental Europe that would later become a major great power in the world. 

[^1]: An elector, in this case, refers to one of the seven highest-ranking princes(which included both secular and ecclesiastical princes) of the Holy Roman Empire who had the right to elect the emperor.
[^2]: The Palatinate was a state of the Holy Roman Empire in and between the Rheinland-Pfalz and Hessen regions of modern Germany.
[^3]: Modern-day Kaliningrad, Russia.
[^4]: The title of King *in* Prussia was a kind of compromise title, as being the king *of* Prussia would have been seen as a direct challenge to the authority of the Holy Roman Emperor, but being the king *in* Prussia was seen as a subordinate title.
[^5]: With the help of von Moltke and von Roon, the Prussian army would become a juggernaut, and Bismarck used this to unify Germany under Prussian leadership.