Andrew Garber
Paradigm Shifts Rough Draft
Politics are the fundamental organizational function of human societies, and the way we choose to influence our organization is a fundamental view to the character, views, and beliefs of every individual. That is something even apparent to a 10-year-old, and I would know because the inauguration of Donald J. Trump as the 45th President of the United States was one of my first conscious memories of politics, and was a shocking one at that. I grew up in a Democratic Bubble, and the ascendance of someone so clearly inconsistent with the values that existed in my air supply was a shock. The daily news was filled with shocking accounts of President Trump's behavior, his tweets, and his policies, and I found myself repulsed - I became interested in politics and government more generally to figure out why I was repulsed. I've always been good at absorbing information, and the good thing about the years of the first Trump presidency was that there was no shortage of political information to absorb: late night, cable news, Twitter, and books on political theory - I immersed myself in it. Thomas Kuhn's concept of paradigms of thinking is expressly applicable to politics, every person has a political paradigm for the way in which they see the world and those who disagree with them are fundamentally inconsistent with it, they are the anomalies that break the paradigm. I didn't change my paradigm on Trump, something far more fundamental changed for me as I viewed how the anti-Trump opposition, the Democratic bubble I grew up in, wasn't the answer to my problems with Trump but instead just a different flavor of that which I found abhorrent in the MAGA movement. This is the story of how I changed my mind about the politics of the air I grew up in and realized that the values I accepted pro forma: government is fundamentally morally good because it is elected democratically, that business is fundamentally greedy and morally bankrupt, and that the "social issues" of society could be fixed if only the right people were in charge were contrary to the fundamental values of humanity I held dearly.
Elon Musk is something of a lightning-rod figure these days, and I will not claim to share his views on a great many issues, but I consider him a great man of our day in his ability to build businesses that make money through positive social change. NASA is inefficient, slow, and unambitious: Elon's SpaceX launches a rocket every two days building mega-constellations of satellites to provide internet to the world, while still being the sole American provider of transit to the ISS. Tesla's are the most environmentally friendly cars on the market, all while being the safest - and he did all of this while making a mountain of money for himself. If one finds themselves willing to disparage those generally societally beneficial actions on the principle that he was rewarded for his actions in a way consistent with voluntary exchange, as is the party line of the Democratic bubble I grew up in, then I would consider them complicit in the destruction of all that humanity has achieved. Elon's actions broke open the "business is bad" paradigm I had grown up in, but as I saw it perhaps government as an institution was not yet lost - if only the right people were in charge then it would be the best of both worlds.
I still think we should elect better people, but my "government is good" paradigm was broken by an innocuous remark by a mentor of mine when I was in 10th grade. My swing to classical liberalism/moderate libertarianism needed one more push, and it came from a mentor of mine when I was in 10th grade. Carter Williams is a venture capitalist, entrepreneur, and all-around excellent human who has been a mentor of mine for a number of years - on one of our Zoom meetings discussing this or that topic, he mentioned F.A. Hayek's "The Road to Serfdom", and upon hearing I hadn't read it insisted I do so. I consider it the second most influential book on my life, and it was the first entrance to an area of political philosophy I had previously considered as simply selfish cranks. In some of the simplest language of any book on political theory I had ever read, Hayek explains how the state's incentives are misaligned with those of the individual beyond the most limited extent of it, and that the government's "do good" social programs were fundamentally the cause of not only those same problems but also the destruction of the free market and free society. To every possible objection I could hope to muster from my old paradigm, he checked and guarded against it - only a denial of reality could keep me from seeing the truth: government, beyond the most essential functions of a free society, is the problem. People must be free to act as they see fit in so far as they do not harm others, anything beyond that is the use of the government's unique monopoly on violence for the private aims of certain citizens against others.
The nature of a paradigm shift in my view is the creation of a fresh skeleton of understanding the world that must be followed by more information to fill it out, and I once again devoured new political theory to fill out my new paradigm as I had once done with late-night comedy and the news during the first Trump presidency. Mises, Friedman, Hayek, and many more - I read, I listened, I watched, and I learned. I found myself in a new world, one where the opposition and the establishment were not fighting each other but instead simply disagreed on the fine details of an incorrect understanding of the world. Before that I was sure I was going to go into politics and be that good leader, the first good man in a generation who would fix the world - now I'm sure I am going into the market and will fix the world by giving people what they want.
