Andrew Garber
Paradigm Shift
One of my first conscious memories of politics was the inauguration of President Trump when I was in 5th grade. My teachers gathered the whole grade into a single classroom to watch a man described, not unfairly, in unflattering and/or hostile terms in the Democratic Bubble of my hometown, take the oath of office. I remember a disbelief that someone so openly hostile to values I had absorbed through the collective consciousness, the taboos of my upbringing, could obtain such a supreme mandate. This was when I got interested in government and politics more generally, and I began to learn through reading, watching late-night political comedy, and listening to my parents and grandparents talk about the world. This isn't the story of how I changed my mind about President Trump, because I didn't - I still think he is wrong about most issues, a threat to political norms and the rule of law, and generally unfit for leadership. This is instead the story of how I changed my mind about the politics of the air I grew up in and realized that the values I accepted pro forma: government is fundamentally morally good because it is elected democratically, that business is fundamentally greedy and morally bankrupt, and that the "social issues" of society could be fixed if only the right people were in charge.

My first disillusionment with the "government is good" and "business is bad" belief system had nothing to do with Trump or Biden or any other politician, but with a man of the market himself, Elon Musk. Elon has since involved himself in politics, with many views and people I disagree with, but learning about him and how he built his businesses to make money through positive social change--expanding humanity's reach to the stars, electric cars that are better for the environment, medical devices that allow paralyzed people to interact with technology--broke open the "business is bad" belief system I had grown up in. NASA had spent more than a decade and billions of dollars on the Space Launch System(SLS) and hadn't launched it once at that point to the point that it became known as the Senate Launch System, simply a jobs program - Elon had built the world's first genuinely reusable rocket, and had knocked the cost of Space Travel down to 1/10th of the price of the Space Shuttle.

Still, I hadn't given up on government - I had given up my "business is bad" paradigm. Still, government was elected by the people, thus government programs that helped the poor, provided social services, and otherwise involved itself in society according to the voter's wishes were good. My swing to classical liberalism/moderate libertarianism needed one more push, and it came from a mentor of mine when I was in 10th grade. Carter Williams is a venture capitalist, entrepreneur, and all-around excellent human who has been a mentor of mine for a number of years - on one of our Zoom meetings discussing this or that topic, he mentioned F.A. Hayek's "The Road to Serfdom", and upon hearing I hadn't read it insisted I do so. That book recommendation broke my paradigm of the government as a good actor in society, and I began to see the world in a new way.

I read Hayek's book, then dozens more of a realm of political theory I had dismissed as cranks before, and went down the rabbit hole of comparing these logically unassailable arguments to the ideas that had been in the air-supply of my upbringing. I found that the "social issues" that the government was supposed to fix were not the result of a lack of government intervention, but the result of a lack of individual liberty. The government was not the solution to the problems of society, but the problem. My whole paradigm of the nature of the individual and the state was completely reinvented, my interest in politics and government did not change, but my lens through which to view it did. Understanding government, and getting a degree in political science, was no longer to make government good, but simply to get government out of the way.
