### Andrew Garber
### November 29, 2022
### American Response To Japanese Imperialism

#### Prompt
American economic response to Japanese Imperialism, and how it led to an eventual war between Japan and the United States 
please include discussion of japanese imperialism - brief indication of its roots, intentions (was it securing their own homeland or was it truly expansionist? greed? insecurity? competitiveness? new leadership?), why the US had  (or had to have?) an economic response and WITHOUT using first person - was that a VALID AND WELL CONCEIVED tactic vs initial military response? and then why - as above - this lead to war. 

#### Response

Japan's decision to attack Pearl Harbor on December 7, 1941, was neither an ill-conceived endeavor motivated by the bloodthirsty nature of the people or leaders of Japan nor a purely reactionary move to the American decision to cut off the flow of oil and seize Japanese assets in the United States. Rather, it was a decision made by careful calculation by some of the most brilliant minds in the Japanese military that was based on a combination of miscalculations by both sides due largely to cultural ignorance and a history of imperialism between the nations. 

The roots of Japanese Imperialism can arguably be placed at the feet of the westerners, notably, Commodore Perry who arrived in Japan after two previous attempts at opening trade with the isolationist country and failed. The main goals of the previous attempts, according to The Office of the Historian at the United States Department of State, were to ensure coaling stations for steamships going to China for trade and to ensure that whaling ships could use Japan's ports for reprovisioning. The decision to send Perry to Japan was not one made lightly, though with the commercial need for it increasing and the spirit of Manifest Destiny still firmly in the hearts of Americans he was eventually dispatched. Arriving with four modern warships, far more powerful than the primitive navy Japan possessed, Perry delivered his letter to the Emperor. While many political leaders in Japan were pushing to reject the offer, believing that isolationism was still the best path for the people of Japan, the Shogun who possessed the real power behind the Emperor decided that in light of the Chinese humiliation in the Opium wars that acceptance was the best course of action. This decision fed fuel to the fire of latent Japanese nationalism, and feelings of racial and cultural superiority which would lead to the seminal event on the road to Japanese Nationalism: The Meiji Restoration.

The Meiji Restoration took place in 1866 when the emperor of Japan died and was replaced by the emperor Meiji who was only fifteen at the time. He was, according to Allan Todd of the Cambridge University Press, quickly taken under the influence of the growing anti-western, pro-nationalist groups. Due to fighting in the early 1860s, Japan was on the brink of civil war, and to avoid it the shogun, in 1867 ceded political authority back to the Emperor with the prerogative to ensure that Japan did not come under the colonial thumb of a Western nation. The ascendance of Emperor Meiji and his allegiance to the nationalist groups who helped give him total political and cultural hegemony over Japan helped to enshrine a doctrine of industrialism and militarism. Within a generation, Japan had risen from a backwater to near first-tier world power, not matching Britain or the United States yet, but certainly one of the most powerful nations in the world with a thoroughly modern army and navy. Japan then used this newfound power in its attempts to repudiate the unequal treaties that had been forced upon it by western powers, and to expand its sphere of influence in Asia - particularly in Korea. Here it found itself in conflict with China, which had a puppet regime in Korea - after forcing a treaty on Korea in 1876 that gave Japanese in Korea special rights, protests broke out. The Japanese government responded by sending troops to Korea, under the pretext of protecting ethnic Japanese civilians. The Chinese responded by sending their own troops in to protect both the puppet government they had established and the ethnic Chinese living in Korea. While the full-scale war was avoided due to the Li-Ito Convention in 1885, hostiles boiled over in 1894 and the first Sino-Japanese war began in 1894. The war ended in 1895 with the Treaty of Shimonoseki after crushing victories by the modern Japanese military, establishing a puppet regime for Japan in Korea, and forcing China to cede Taiwan and various other concessions.

At the dawn of the 20th century, tensions between the stagnant Russian Empire and the ascendant Japanese Empire were high due to Russian interests in Manchuria and Japanese interests in the Liaodong Peninsula being forfeited with threats of intervention from France, Germany, and Russia. With the Russian refusal to recognize Japanese interests in Korea, the Japanese government declared war on Russia in 1904. While Japanese geopolitical weight had been increasing for almost half a century, and their military had been completely overhauled with assistance from France, Germany, and the United Kingdom they were still viewed as a regional power, not a world power. With some stunning naval victories and a numerically superior force landed in Korea to fight the Russians, the Japanese were able to force a peace treaty on the Russians in 1905 with the mediation of the United States, leading to the treaty of Portsmouth where Japan got half of Sakhalin Island and the South Manchurian Railway. The Japanese had asserted their might as a world power, and the western powers had taken notice - and a collision course between the nationalist ambitions of Japan and the economic and ideological interests of the west was set.

American economic response to the Japanese war in China launched in 1937, contrary to the popular narrative according to Jeffrey Record a professor of strategy at the Air War College, was not an inevitability but a belief of the Roosevelt Administration that Japanese imperial ambitions could be stopped using economic sanctions and force projecting military deployments. Roosevelt, for several reasons including his flagging domestic policy, and a romantic vision of China due to past family connections had given real support to Chiang Kai-Shek the leader of nationalist China in his fight against the Japanese. This predisposition to supporting China, and the relations crisis between the United States and Japan when the United States tacitly took sides in the conflict and the bombing of the USS Panay and three Standard Oil tankers in China set both countries away from constructive dialogue. As Record says in his book, "Japan's Decision for War in 1941: Some Enduring Lessons" when analyzing the American view of Japanese intentions, concisely portrays the ignorance of the Japanese situation and the cultural factors due to systemic nationalism that made an aggressive solution far more likely.  "The conviction, widespread within the Roosevelt administration until the last months of 1941, that no sensible Japanese leader could rationally contemplate war with the United States, blinded key policymakers to the likely consequences of such reckless decisions as the imposition of what amounted to a complete trade embargo of Japan in the summer of 1941. The embargo abruptly deprived Japan of 80 percent of its oil requirements, confronting Tokyo with the choice of either submitting to U.S. demands that it give up its empire in China and resume its economic dependency on the United States or, alternatively, advancing into resource-rich Southeast Asia and placing its expanded empire on an economically independent foundation."(Record, p. 7). When considering the dispositions of both sides, it is quite clear that views of the cultural superiority of both the American and Japanese sides and gross lack of understanding, in the American belief that stopping oil flows would prevent conflict and the Japanese belief that the United States would ever consider a negotiated peace meant that a war between the two nations was inevitable until the political and cultural climate changed.

In conclusion, the war between the United States and Japan beginning with the attack on Pearl Harbor was based on almost a century of tension between the nations beginning with simple economic aims and eventual geopolitical competition for spheres of influence across the Pacific. The tide of Japanese militarism and nationalism that swept the nation following the Meiji Restoration was an indirect by-product of the forced end of isolationism in Japan by Commodore Perry. The sudden shock to the political and social structures of Japan and the wave of industrialization that swept the nation to Japan on an equal footing with the western powers fed into these expansionist goals and provided the justification for wars of aggression against their neighbors and eventually much of the world. The United States was not blameless in the conflict, and the actions of the Roosevelt Administration in the years leading up to the war in their attempts to stop the conflict through economic punishment and military force projection were not only ineffective but also contributed to the exacerbation of the conflict. In the end, the triumph of greatly superior American industry ended the rule of dictators and aggressors in Japan and paved the way for Japan's ascension as a leading force for modern industry and democracy. 



#### Sources
[Cambridge University Press | Allan Todd | Japanese Expansion in East Asia 1931-41](https://assets.cambridge.org/97811075/56287/excerpt/9781107556287_excerpt.pdf)
[United States  Department of State | Office of the Historian, Foreign Service Institute](https://history.state.gov/milestones/1937-1945/pearl-harbor)
[United States Department of State | Office of the Historian, Foreign Service Institute](https://history.state.gov/milestones/1830-1860/opening-to-japan#.)
[Japan's Decision for War In 1941: Some Enduring Lessons| Jeffrey Record - Professor of Strategy at Air War College](Media/Japans_decision_for_war_1941_record.pdf) 
