### Andrew Garber
### Dec 22
### The 1970s

#### Nixon's Foreign Policy
 - The challenge of securing peace in Vietnam was significant and Nixon realized that he needed a strong supporting staff to assist in his foreign policy decision making. In January 1969, Nixon appointed Harvard political science professor Henry Kissinger as National Security Adviser; Kissinger eventually became Secretary of State in 1973.
 - Nixon hoped that by reaching out to the Soviet Union and China, both global powers would begin to reduce support of its communist ally, North Vietnam. This, in turn, would lead to an expedited American withdrawal from the war. This rapprochement, or easing of relations between the three nations, became known as Détente. During the period of Détente, arms control between the United States and the Soviet Union took center stage. In 1969, the two adversaries entered into the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT) and, in 1972, signed the SALT I agreement. The accord called for a mutual reduction on anti-ballistic missiles and intercontinental ballistic missile production.
 - Yet, for as many of the strides as the United States had taken to ease international tensions, the Vietnam War still raged on. Nixon's first policy in bringing an end to the war took shape in July of 1969. Known as the Nixon Doctrine, the president's foreign policy maintained that while the United States would continue to provide economic and military assistance to anti-communist governments under threat, it was the responsibility of the nation to provide its own manpower to fight the enemy. This became applicable during the Vietnam War and was the beginning of Vietnamization which referred to the United States turning the war effort over to the people of South Vietnam. It also reflected the aim of the Nixon administration to exit the Vietnam War without appearing weak to the Soviet Union or other communist threats and for Republicans to avoid a political defeat in the subsequent elections.
 - Henry Kissinger entered into secret peace talks with North Vietnamese representative Le Duc Tho in July of 1969. Unfortunately, the two sides struggled to reach an agreement for a number of reasons - that is, until 1973 which will be discussed shortly. While Kissinger attempted to secure an honorable resolution, Nixon began propagating the 'madman theory.' Nixon wanted the North Vietnamese to believe that he was an unstable and unpredictable leader who would stop at nothing short of nuclear war to end the conflict in Vietnam.
 - The North Vietnamese remained unintimidated by the United States' military efforts. Following a military coup by Gen. Lon Nol against the government of King Norodom Sihanouk, Nixon authorized the Cambodian Incursion, a secret war in 1970. The objective of this mission was to move into Cambodia, eliminate the enemy forces transiting Cambodian territory, and coax the newly installed Cambodian government to be more sympathetic to the United States. Cambodia had been officially neutral and opposed the entry of U.S. forces into its territory. Nixon saw the coup in Cambodia as an unexpected opportunity to aggressively attack North Vietnamese activities which had been using Cambodian territory to avoid American and South Vietnamese forces. In addition to activities by ground forces, the Cambodian Incursion involved heavy bombing which lasted until 1973. Over 100,000 Cambodians were killed and 2 million were left homeless. Records released during the Clinton administration in the 1990s showed that the United States dropped notably more bombs on Cambodia during this undeclared war than the Allies had dropped in the whole of World War 2. Bombing sites were concentrated near the border with Vietnam, but also extended far into Cambodia. Historians largely agree that the civilian devastation drove the population to support an insurgency that hadn't otherwise been garnering support. This
 - Or was it? In 1974, North Vietnam defied the Paris Peace Accords and began rebuilding its army. In 1975, the North Vietnamese descended on South Vietnam and captured the nation's capital, Saigon, on April 30. The United States was forced to watch as the two decade-long effort in Vietnam was rendered moot. This was largely due to several important pieces of legislation passed as a reaction by Congress to the cavalier military efforts of Nixon. The legislation included the repeal of the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in June 1970, the Cooper-Church Amendment in 1971, which forced American missions to be conducted in South Vietnam only, the Case-Church Amendment in 1973, which prohibited further operations in Southeast Asia, and the War Powers Resolution of 1973, which turned war-making decisions over to Congress.
#### OPEC
 - For Americans, the 1970s represented a decade of economic stagnation, unusually high unemployment and constant financial concern. Presidents Nixon, Ford and Carter all attempted to remedy the daunting economic conditions of the decade, but they were all largely unsuccessful. One of the main culprits responsible for the inert American economy was oil production in the Middle East.
 - The United States had reached its peak of domestic oil production around 1970. The decade that followed witnessed a dramatic decrease in domestic oil production, yet oil consumption continued to rise. The United States was able to offset its own limited production by importing oil from the Middle East due to an agreement with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries, or OPEC, which was an organization consisting of several Middle Eastern nations to control oil prices. Unfortunately, this meant that OPEC controlled the fate of the United States' energy consumption and, essentially, a part of the American economy.
 - As mentioned above, 1970 represented the peak of oil production in the United States. Simultaneously, President Nixon decided it was in the nation's best interest to remove the United States from the international gold standard, which eliminated the requirement that the dollar had to be backed by gold. Now, why is this important? Simply put, the American dollar was the most powerful currency in the world; it was the basis for all international pricing and transactions.
 - Angry over the decision to remove the dollar from the gold standard and its loss of net profits, OPEC decided to change the value of a barrel of oil from the American dollar to gold. This led to a significant increase in the cost of a barrel of oil for the United States.
 - The largest economic setback for the United States came in 1973. October 6 marked the beginning of the Yom Kippur War in the Middle East, which witnessed Syria and Egypt attack Israel. Nixon refused to allow the nation to collapse under the pressure of Syria and Egypt. He therefore authorized Operation Nickel Grass to deliver economic and military aid to Israel. Incensed by Nixon's decision to support Israel, OPEC authorized an oil embargo that had devastating effects on the United States economy.
 - The limited production of oil, coupled with the rising price of a barrel, resulted in an international recession. The effects of the recession were felt on the American home front as both inflation and unemployment skyrocketed. Many historians agree that the period of economic instability from 1970 to 1973 represented the worst financial distress the United States had seen since the Great Depression.
 - By March 1974, OPEC's embargo of oil had come to a conclusion after an agreement was worked out at a Washington Oil Summit. Unfortunately, the effects of the embargo and the fluctuating dollar were continuously felt throughout the remainder of the 1970s. In 1976, irritated by the fluctuation of the American dollar, OPEC once again issued an embargo of oil. Fortunately, this embargo did not last long as President Carter threatened to remove America from the international oil standard and begin the process of finding new forms of energy. America dodged a bullet temporarily until 1979.
#### Roe v Wade 
 - At the beginning of the 1970s, the major women's issue within the United States was the campaign for the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). This legislation essentially required that women receive the same rights as men. Unfortunately, due to tremendous conservative opposition at the time, the ERA failed to pass through Congress. While the ERA was a contentious issue among women and the federal government, another issue arose that polarized the United States through contemporary times. This was the Supreme Court's landmark ruling in Roe v. Wade (1973) that set the precedent for legalized abortion in the United States.
 - Ultimately, the court ruled in favor of Roe. The majority opinion stated that McCorvey's right to an abortion fell under the statute set in the Ninth Amendment of the Constitution, which guaranteed the right to privacy of American citizens. Dismayed, Henry Wade appealed the decision to the Supreme Court in 1970.
 - The Court argued that the mother has the constitutional right to abortion without being subject to a criminal offense under the Fourteenth Amendment, more specifically, the due process clause, which provides privacy to Americans and their personal decisions. However, the Court argued that the right to abortion must be balanced with the life of the child and the health of the mother. The state had the right to intervene if an abortion would cause harm or death to the mother, or the child had developed past a certain time frame.
 - In June of 2022, the United States Supreme Court overturned Roe v Wade in its decision in Dobbs vs Jackson Women's Health Organization, largely propelling Democrats to a historic midterm result.
#### Watergate

#### Gerald Ford

#### Jimmy Carter
