### Andrew Garber
### Writing Assignment: Nato, EU, UN
### Dec14-16 2022

#### Prompt:
NATO, the UN and the EU were all organizations founded to provide / promote international cooperation.  
What are the strategic and ideological goals of the organizations; how did their implementations differ and what are the leading factor(s) for the success / failure of the organization.  What elements from each are the most useful to accomplishing the goal of international cooperation? Can such an organization be successful and what would that look like? 
#### Response:

The years immediately following World War 2 did not include an era of international peace and cooperation as many had hoped. The United States-with democratic, capitalist allies-and the Soviet Union were locked in a vicious, undeclared struggle over the merits of their ideologies. The Cold War was a time of great fear and paranoia, with each side accusing the other of being a threat to world peace. The Soviet Union's expansion into Eastern Europe, and the United States' involvement in the Korean War and Vietnam War, only served to further fuel the fear and paranoia of the Cold War. In 1949, in response to the Soviet Union's expansion into Eastern Europe, in direct opposition to promises of free elections in liberated countries, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) was founded. NATO was founded by the United States, Canada, France, Great Britain, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Denmark, Norway, Portugal, and Iceland. NATO was founded on the principle of mutual defense, wherein if one nation was attacked by any other a collective response from all nations to the aggressor was required. The European Union(EU) was founded not in search of military protection but economic cooperation to help rebuild the brutalized economies of Europe, starting as the European Coal and Steel Community. This organization eliminated almost all trade barriers between member nations - supercharging the economies and industries of these nations and making war between them less likely, with the belief that nations who had intertwined economies wouldn't go to war with each other. In 1958, this was expanded to become the European Economic Community and later founded the European Parliament. The United Nations is the successor to the League of Nations, the doomed institution founded after World War I to ensure that another war of that scale did not happen again, however due to lack of cooperation from major powers it was not successful. Founded after World War II, the United Nations was chartered to ensure that conflicts could be mediated and resolved peacefully, instead of another World War that could prove the last the world would get a chance to fight. All of these organization were founded with the goal of ensuring that a repeat of the world wars of the first half of the 20th century would not be repeated, but they all tried to solve that problem in different ways. The differing strategic and ideological goals of these organization means that some facets of their operations are more useful in the maintenance of world peace.

The most important thing in the comparison of these three organizations is their large differences in structure and purpose, and any discussion of the relative merits of them without doing so would be incomplete. 

#### Sources:
 - [A Short History of Nato | Nato](https://www.nato.int/cps/en/natohq/declassified_139339.htm)
 - [University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: Center for European Studies](https://europe.unc.edu/iron-curtain/history/the-birth-of-a-united-europe/)
 - [History of the UN | Un.org](https://www.un.org/un70/en/content/history/index.html)
 - [European Coal and Steel Community](https://www.britannica.com/topic/European-Coal-and-Steel-Community)  