### Andrew Garber
### October 21-November 1
### Does the Federal Government have the right amount of power?

The distribution of power between the Federal, State, and Local governments has been an issue of contention since the Declaration of Independence was signed. The greatest issue throughout the history of the United States of America is if the Federal Government has an outsized or undersized position of power in accordance with the overarching goals of the nation. It is my firm belief that the total power of the Federal Government is about the correct amount, but a series of reforms in the way that the Legislative and Executive branches function are necessary for an effective and nimble government to deal with the unique challenges of the 21st century. The most important of these reforms in the Legislative branch are age limits for members of congress, the elimination of the filibuster, and the end of the two-party system with the implementation of ranked-choice voting. In the Executive branch a change in the way that departments are organized to make maximum use of the highly specialized nature of sub-departments, along with working more efficiently in concert with state agencies.

While age limits for members of Congress have been a topic of discussion for decades, the salience of the issue has only increased as longer-term threats to the future survival of not only the nation but the planet become top of mind for voters. The simple reality of older leaders not necessarily putting the same energy into fixing problems that will have their deadliest effects when they are gone has dramatically slowed American, and global efforts, in the fight against climate change along with giving validity to conspiracies that dispute its existence at all. This issue becomes further entrenched as lobbyists know that targeting the older members of Congress gives them a better chance of slowing down reform compared to younger members. Implementing an age limit would select young, dynamic, and innovative leaders that have the energy to build a better nation and improve the welfare of its citizens.

The elimination of the filibuster is a highly controversial topic that is almost always pushed by the side with their agenda being disputed, however, it is my belief that the filibuster is an affront to the democratic principles of the legislative branch and has become a built-in function for slowing down the progress of government. The ability for legislation even the slightest bit contentious to be stopped dead save for "pork-barrel" concessions with just the threat of a filibuster dramatically increases spending and dilutes the intention of any given bill in favor of causes not related in the slightest. Proponents paint a picture of lawmakers using the filibuster in a way reminiscent of the Spartans at Thermopylae, holding back the hordes as a bastion of the minority opinion, but this is in no way supported by the common use of it. Most legislation that goes through the U.S. congress has goals that are agreed upon by both parties, and those issues which the parties disagree upon entirely are the main issues voters consider for elections every two years - it should not require a complete landslide for these issues to make it past the filibuster margin. There are very few issues that could motivate voters sufficiently to provoke that kind of overwhelming support, and the only majorities sufficient in recent history to get the most contentious issues passed-following September 11th, and Barack Obama's victory in 2008-were largely isolated. While the filibuster might have noble roots and rare uses that stem the tide of populism in favor of rational judgment, it is almost always used as a method of obstructing reform for political purposes.

Voting systems are a topic of much consternation and could certainly warrant a paper discussing the various methods for voting in a representative democracy, however, it is my opinion that ranked-choice voting provides the greatest equity of parties and provides the voter with the opportunity to find a party that aligns best with their specific interests. The two-party system that the U.S. has dealt with since the founding of the nation has almost always led to voters picking the "less bad" option, something that artificially decreases turnout because of dramatic voter apathy. Ranked choice voting would let the voter award their votes to the candidate who most fits their interests, while still allowing for compromise candidates near the bottom of many voters lists to be palatable for a large percentage of the voters. This is not a perfect system, for there to be a candidate who exactly matched the views of every eligible voter would have every eligible voter be a member of Congress. However, a system in which smaller parties can come together to pass meaningful legislation on issues where they agree would and oppose each other where they disagree would better match the civic nature of our society and provide voters with a better representation of their interests.

The Executive branch of the Federal Government was the greatest issue of contention for the founders of the U.S. as they were undecided about what form executive leadership should take in the new nation, and the branch has expanded dramatically as the scope of government has increased to a far larger number of issues. The Departments of the Federal branch is the main mechanism of bureaucracy at the Federal Level and while they do an admirable job already, there are several changes that would make them far more efficient and ready to take on the challenges of the new century. The biggest problem is the number of sub-departments and how their information gets funneled from specialists to generalist political appointees. My proposed solution to this is to eliminate the large broad departments like the Department of Energy and make all of the sub-departments fully fledged ones and change the role of the Secretary of Energy to that of the funnel for the department heads. This allows decision-making to be made either by the President at the top end of the branch or at the departmental level where the specialists in their given area can excel. 

In concert with this change to the reporting structure of the Federal branch, I think it would benefit the nation for a similar change at the state and local levels. If the structure of the state and local agencies and departments were to mirror those I have proposed at the Federal level then a direct chain of specialty could be established where experts in both a discipline and their locality could advise higher-level leaders on how a proposed policy would affect them. While detractors of this kind of scalable government claim it would take away from the individuality of each state and their freedoms to operate without instruction from the Federal Government, I believe that the challenges we face in the modern era are simply too vast to be defeated with the same departmental separation of concerns as was designed almost two and a half centuries ago. 

Without input from experts from across the width and breadth of government and industry across the nation and changes to the way our representative democracy works to make it more equal and fair, efforts to tackle the greatest challenges of our era would be severely inhibited. More than this, these inhibitions would act as fodder for those who wish to surpass the United States' position of leadership in both policy and values across the world and strengthen the forces of oppression and poverty when they could have been defeated. The American system is not fundamentally broken, the ideas that took it from an agricultural nation to an industrial power and later the world's greatest power are still valid and if harnessed correctly will provide the tip of the spear in the fight against the greatest challenges of the modern era.
