### Andrew Garber

### Garber Institute Valedictorian Speech

Before I begin, I would like to give a special thanks to the faculty, staff, administration, and parents for their support of the whole class of 2024. In the same vein, I would like to thank the whole class of 2024 for their hard work, good looks, incredible intelligence, and mesmerizing charm.

Jokes aside, everyone here knows me, so you probably guessed that I had 97 ideas of what to write about, but I only have 3 minutes, so I will do my best to make a good showing in such a short time. Most of those ideas had something to do with making unconventional choices, but I think that topic is somewhat self-explanatory. You are all here for the graduation ceremony of the Garber Institute of Andrew Garber Learning, after all. So, instead, I want to talk about something that is ironically a little more conventional: participation.

At some point, the word "participation" became a dirty word. It became associated with compulsory attendance, doing the bare minimum, and just showing up. Today, the word is used half as much as it was 50 years ago. I think that is a mistake. I think that participation is the most important thing that you can do because, in reality, it is all your choice. Participation isn't checking a box, even if you technically fulfill the requirement; it is about the willful devotion of your limited time and energy to something you believe is worthy of it. Disengagement, apathy, and indifference are the real enemies of progress in the face of something deserving of attention, energy, passion, and duty.

Active participation, not in the sense of raising your hand in class but having something to add and a stake in the outcome, requires courage. The courage to not care about things outside the scope of your influence, and the courage to risk failure for those that are. Few things are certain, and when the kind of forthright participation I am talking about is involved, it never is. While it isn't fashionable to quote him for good reason, I think Napoleon said it best: "If the art of war were nothing but the art of avoiding risks, glory would become the prey of mediocre minds." The reward for participation, of actively engaging with the world, is the opportunity to make a difference, and receive the internal glory of knowing you changed the angle of the world's trajectory, even if only slightly. Plaudits, triumphs, and accolades are fleeting, but the knowledge that you did something, that you participated, cements itself in character and identity.

To wrap up the fewest words I have ever used to make a point, and without any more jokes or a stirring call to action, I want to thank you all for participating in this: you devoted part of your limited time and energy to come here, listen to me, and be a part of this. I truly appreciate it. Thank you.
