### Andrew Garber
### 11th Grade
### March 15-April 18, 2023
### The Battle Of Kursk by David Glantz Book Report

"The Battle of Kursk" by David Glantz is an in-depth look at the greater political, strategic, and operational context of the Battle of Kursk in 1943, an essential turning point in the Eastern Front of World War II. Glantz's look at the battle is unique in that it is not a narrative history, telling the story of the battle from the perspective of those on the ground and stitching them together into a coherent narrative. Instead, Glantz takes an analytical approach to the battle, looking at the battle from the top down and analyzing the different combatants' actions and decisions. This approach allows Glantz to provide a more comprehensive look at the battle, and to achieve a more nuanced view of the battle and the considerations that went into it. In this approach, Glantz goes out of his way to debunk many of the myths and misconceptions that have grown up around the battle, challenging popular narratives around reasons for the attack, why the Soviets won, and the role of individual actions across the front.  

Starting almost immediately, Glantz goes to great lengths to set up the stakes of the Battle of Kursk. Despite its smaller role in the history books compared to battles around Moscow and Stalingrad, both sides wagered a great deal on their operations in the Kursk area. Despite having little political or economic value, and little strategic value outside of the stretching of both armies' lines, the elimination of the Kursk salient was required to restore control of the front lines for the Germans and was key in exploiting German weakness for the Soviets. The Germans needed a win at Kursk to boost flagging morale and whittle down the Soviet forces, which by this point were numerically superior in men and equipment. The Soviets were committed at Kursk because of the belief that the Germans were on the verge of total collapse and that a victory at Kursk would grind down the German forces enough for massive Soviet offensives to follow much more easily. In Glantz's words, "Under the circumstances, it was politically impossible for Germany to surrender the initiative on the Eastern Front. Although only fanatics believed that the Soviets could be decisively defeated, most senior leaders recognized the necessity for a renewed offensive."(Glantz 21). If the Germans rolled the dice and lost large portions of their army, the Soviets would be in a position to take the initiative and push the Germans back to the gates of Berlin.  

In the preparation phase of the battle, Glantz dispels the narrative that Hitler's meddling in pushing the attack from early May to July 5th due to his anxiety about the potential ramifications was singlehandedly responsible for the German defeat in the battle. Had Hitler believed in the superiority of his armies around the Kursk salient, as his original order implies, "This attack is of the utmost importance. It must be executed quickly. It must seize the initiative for us in the spring and summer. Therefore all preparations must be conducted with great circumspection and enterprise. The best formations, the best weapons, the best commanders and great stocks of ammunition must be committed in the main effort...The enemy will be given no respite and will be destroyed by the prompt compression of the pocket."(Glantz 23), then a victory on the largely unprepared Soviets would have been assured, or so goes the historical narrative. This could not have been farther from the truth. Both armies were considerably weakened following the Battle of Stalingrad and the Soviet offensives that created the Kursk salient. It would be irresponsible for any student of history to state that both the Soviets and Germans were in shape for a confrontation the size of the Battle of Kursk, both sides needed time to recover and reorganize.

The myth of the German Wehrmacht (army) and Luftwaffe(Air Force) having overwhelming technical superiority during the Battle of Kursk, and throughout the war more generally, is one of the most enduring myths of the war. Glantz does not stray into the technicalities of various platforms, focusing more on the strategic and operational level of the battle, but he does provide a great deal of insight into the relative strengths of both sides numerically. While it is common knowledge that the Tiger and Panther tanks of the Germans were superior to the T-34 and KV tanks of the Soviets, they were deployed in extremely small numbers by this point in the war and the Panzer IVs that made up the majority of the German tank force were generally about equal to the T-34s(with major pros and cons of each vehicle). The main attack in the Northern sector of the salient was carried about by Walter Model's 9th Army. With 6 Panzer, 1 Panzer grenadier, and fourteen infantry divisions they had between them 590 tanks, and 424 assault guns. Of these forces, some were very modern Tiger tanks and Ferdinand Tank Destroyers, but the vast majority were Sturmgeschütz(commonly known as simply the Stug) III assault guns and Panzer III/IV tanks. Lined up on the southern sector of the bulge was the significantly stronger Army Group South, commanded by Erich von Manstein, consisting of the Fourth Panzer Army and Army Detachment Kempf. Added together, von Manstein controlled 6 Panzer, 5 Panzer Grenadier, and assorted infantry divisions with 1269 tanks and 245 assault guns. These two forces were supported by the Sixth Air Fleet, led by General Ritter von Greim(a World War I ace), and the Fourth Air Fleet, commanded by General Otto Dessloch. While the numbers are hard to determine, approximately 1800 planes supported the German offensive on either edge of the salient. An overlooked part of the Luftwaffe's contribution to the battle was a large number of anti-aircraft guns, taken from airfields to support the ground forces. According to Glantz, "More than 100 88mm guns provided direct support to the Ninth German Army, leaving the Luftwaffe with scant resources to defend airfields and other vital installations."(Glantz 54). This would prove to be an important factor, both in German tank-killing capabilities and in the success of Soviet Air Forces in their attacks on German airfields.

When the battle finally began in earnest, it was not through massive frontal assaults or large-scale pincers from the coordinated tank and mechanized units, instead, it was reconnaissance-in-force missions to destroy forward combat outposts and probe for weak points in the Soviet lines. von Manstein's forces started this in the late afternoon of July 4th, with "Advanced battalions of the 11th Panzer Division and from Grossdeutschland Division's Grenadier Regiment struck the outpost defenses of the Soviet 52d Guards Rifle Division's 3d Battalion, 151st Guards Rifle Regiment...the grenadiers succeeded in encircling most of the Soviet battalion and sweeping the remnants back from their forward positions."(Glantz 81). This individual action was indicative of the kind of fighting that would rage across the entire Kursk battle, not divisions fighting each other but individual battalions and regiments locked in fierce struggles. More important than these small actions though, were the problems that would face the assembling German forces on the night of the 4th and early morning of the 5th. These difficulties are described eloquently by Glantz, saying "Heavy thunder, violent lightning, and torrential rains bedeviled the assembling German host. To make matters worse, Soviet artillery fire soon joined the cacophony of sound that announced the beginning of the Battle of Kursk...the assault would not surprise the Red Army."(Glantz 84). The existence of a prepared enemy, with significant field fortifications and numerical superiority in troops and artillery, goes against the fundamental doctrine of the use of armored forces - particularly for the Germans who didn't have the material wealth to support anything but extremely positive exchanges of force. Despite these significant problems, the Germans appeared to be making steady if not spectacular progress on the first days of the battle. By the end of the 5th, Model had broken through the first defensive belt in the North, a seemingly impressive result, however, this victory was a pyrrhic one, as illustrated by Glantz, "about two-thirds of the over 300 tanks and assault guns that the Germans committed to the battle were put out of action due to enemy fire or mechanical failure... Model had lost at least 20 percent of his total armored striking power on the first day."(Glantz 91). Despite the matter-of-fact tone that Glantz takes in reporting this, it is a truly staggering statistic when considering how limited the force of the Germans was in comparison to the Soviets. The Germans were overwhelmingly outmatched materially and could only fall back on the superior training and tactical abilities of their crews. Even though some percentage of the crews would have escaped the loss of their tanks, many would have been lost and there simply weren't tanks to put them in to get them back into the fight. 

Despite German losses in the early days of the Battle, the Soviets were not winning an overwhelming victory either. Due to Model's penetration of the first defensive belt in the North, the Soviets decided to immediately counterattack. This move, while speaking to the confidence and initiative of Soviet commanders, was ill-advised. Glantz illustrates this simply, "Considering the enormous residual power of the German offensive, the proposed counterattack was premature...fewer than 200 of 2d Tank Army's 465 tanks would see action on 6 July."(Glantz 93). The operational and communication issues that led to less than half of the Tank Forces being committed in the counterstroke doomed an offensive that could have been a minor defeat due to its premature nature, to causing dramatic material losses, made all the more unfortunate by these tanks being in prime positions-very close to the front-to be extremely useful in the continued defense of the Kursk Salient. As the battle continued, the German pincers in the north and south pushed deeper into the Soviet defenses and across the Soviet command, and visions of the early encirclements of Kiev and Smolensk flashed through their minds. This fear was largely cast aside when Model's forces in the North failed to make a breakthrough, as Glantz says, "On 8th July the seesaw struggle also continued around Ponyri Station. At dawn, the 307th Rifle Division counterattacked across terrain strewn with Soviet and German dead and the carcasses of tens of burned-out tanks and smashed artillery pieces...Model stubbornly threw fresh troops into the struggle and Pukhov responded in kind...Through Herculean efforts and at immense cost, the Germans finally gained possession of most, but not all, of Ponyri. The largely Pyrrhic victory left the victorious attackers exhausted and utterly incapable of further offensive action."(Glantz 120-121). The defeat of Model's forces, admittedly weaker than those in the South under von Manstein, ended any real hope of a decisive encirclement and operational freedom at Kursk. The fighting would continue in the South, with von Manstein and his forces making steady progress through Soviet lines, at immense cost, but never finding a way to break through. 

Even as the Germans drove towards Prokhorovka and Oboian, soundly defeating Soviet forces in tactical engagements, both the Germans and Soviet leadership made decisions that would prove fateful in the outcome of the battle. The German forces in the south, continually looking for a weak point in the Soviet defensive lines, found what they believed to be a weak point on the highway leading from Oboian to Kursk. In this effort, however, the German forces were drawn in two directions and were steadily attrited by numerically superior Soviet forces. Near the Oboian road was General Katukov's 1st Tank Army, a force Glantz describes as "carefully forged for offensive maneuver, had become a hodgepodge of units, many of them badly depleted, committed to a desperate defense against the determined German attacks."(Glantz 140) being used defensively at odds with its original intention. However, in its continued stubborn defense of the Oboian highway, and its role in splitting the forces of von Manstein, the 1st Tank Army would prove instrumental in the tactical, and later strategic defeat of the Southern German pincer. The force facing the 1st Tank Army, led by General Hermann Hoth, split even farther from Army detachment Kempf and even the 2nd SS Panzer Corps under Hausser. The steady loss of operational focus between the various forces under Von Manstein might not have been an issue during the early campaigns on the eastern front where the Germans had decisive aerial, tactical, and technological superiority but against a numerically superior foe with near equal air power and strongly entrenched positions, it would prove to be a fatal flaw. Despite this, the German forces under Hoth and Kempf did make progress on the 9th, however, General Vatutin soon saw an opportunity to take a great deal of the punching power of the German forces away from them, as Glantz well illustrates, "Vatutin well understood the potential threat to his plans posed by a continued advance by Army Detachment Kempf and its III Panzer Corps. Therefore, it was imperative that Kempf's armor be contained."(Glantz 145). To do this, he issued simple orders to all forces facing von Manstein's forces in the South to stubbornly defend and attack the flanks of German spearheads such that nowhere along the front could they drive without being continually under fire. Vatutin was certainly aware that this kind of order was sure to be costly, but it was a surefire method of keeping the German armor in place. Due to this, the Germans in the South were fundamentally unable to make a decisive penetration of Soviet lines, and Kempf decided that the only way to force a breakthrough here was to change the direction of his assault, with eventually disastrous results. As Glantz simply illustrates, "Thwarted in the center and preoccupied with the threats to his flanks, he issued new orders to the II SS Panzer Corps to shift the axis of its advance northeastward toward Prokhorovka...By attacking through Prokhorovka, Hoth was convinced that the still-powerful SS corps, with concentrated air support, could smash the armored threat to its east, unlock the advance of the III Panzer Corps, and open a new, albeit longer, approach route to the ky city of Kursk."(Glantz 146). This view was incorrect, and by doing so would put the final nail in the coffin of Operation Citadel. 

The supposedly decisive tank battle of Prokhorovka has been greatly dramatized and overblown in the historical narrative of the battle, and its importance was less in the number of tank duels that took place but as the final resting place of the German advance. While large parts of the 5th Guards Army, and more importantly the 5th Guards Tank Army were closing in on the Prokhorovka region, the battle was almost already run due to Soviet numerical superiority. As both sides closed in on the fields of Prokhorovka, both sides launched offensive operations against the other: turning what could have been a somewhat "setpiece" battle with both sides wielding fearsome spears of armored columns into a swirling clash. At the end of the first day of battle, according to Glantz, "Although Leibstandarte[1st SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte SS Adolf Hitler] had made considerable progress and taken Oktiabr'skii State Farm and Hill 252.2, its panzer group was unable to advance beyond the state farm and found itself in a precarious position with both of its flanks exposed and subject to heavy fire."(Glantz 174). This was indicative of the nature of attacking the numerically superior and deeply entrenched Soviet forces at Kursk, and even more so at Prokhorovka where large Soviet formations were in-residence. However, Leibstandarte's costly thrust had, in Glantz's words, "irreparably smashed the 2d Tank Corps' defenses, isolated the corps' 99th Tank Brigade...and carved a deep salient in the 9th Guards Airborne Divsion's defenses forward of Prokhorovka. More significantly, the German thrust had wholly preempted the 5th Guards Army's careful counterattack plans."(Glantz 175). In making a costly, and somewhat ill-advised advance into the entrenched positions of the 5th Guards Army, the Germans had unknowingly thrown the Soviets off balance. The showdown of Prokhorvka dawned on the 12th of July, Hausser's divisions jumped off into the defensive positions of the 5th Guard's Army right as they attacked. The superior Tiger Tanks, fewer in number but superior in gunnery and armor, clashed with dozens of T-34s intent on outflanking them. While the exchange ratio was favorable to the Germans all across the front, they did take losses and the loss of momentum ended any hope of a German breakthrough. Vicious fighting continued throughout the day, but nowhere did the Germans manage to find a decisive victory and get to open ground. The Soviet counteroffensive had launched at the same time the Germans had, and waves of T-34 tanks simply swept south through the exhausted Germans. 

When the Germans in the South were finally ground to a halt by the Soviet defenses, Adolf Hitler called Field Marshal von Manstein to his headquarters at the Wolf's Lair. Hitler had decided to call off future offensive action at Kursk to maintain whatever was left of his armored forces in preparation for a defense of Italy following the Allied invasion of Sicily and for counterstrokes against the inevitable Soviet counteroffensive. Von Manstein's protests against this action led only to his being allowed to use his advanced armored units to exploit local gains, but any hope of a general victory at Kursk had been finally swept off the table by Hitler. This local fighting depleted German armor even more, with Glantz describing the situation, "By the evening of 15 July, Leibstandarte's armored strength had fallen to 57 tanks, 28 assault guns, and 18 tank destroyers; II SS Panzer Corps' remaining two panzer grenadier divisions were in scarcely better shape."(Glantz 221). Glantz's even tone belies the fact that such a minimal remaining armored force for the lavishly equipped Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler SS Panzer Division, one which bore the name of the Fuhrer was an indication of the weakening German strength all over the front. Despite this defensive victory, the Soviets were not content to rest on their laurels. Operation Kutuzov, the attack on the Orel salient on the northern edge of the Germa attack, had already begun days earlier and was meeting with early success. Despite these early successes, Glantz commends Model for quickly pulling armored divisions from their shallow penetrations of Kursk to help stop the Soviet offensive strokes, saying, "Despite Rendulic's initial success, Model was acutely aware of the threat posed by the new Soviet offensive. Within hours of the start of Operation Kutuzov, four divisions of the Ninth Armty were ordered to disengage from the Kursk Bulge and to redeploy to meet the new threat...East of Orel the 1st Guards Tank Corps ran head-on into these two panzer divisions on the 14th and was unable to make significant progress thereafter."(Glantz 235). The Soviet forces made limited gains thereafter and were unable to make a decisive encirclement of the German forces as they withdrew from the Orel Salient in decent order. 

Due to the southern pincer being the stronger of the German attacks, proportionally greater emphasis and resources were devoted to the Soviet counteroffensive in the area: Operation Rumiantsev. The scale and importance of the operation cannot be understated, with Glantz describing it as, "its objective was nothing less than the destruction of the Fourth Panzer Army and Army Detachment Kempf, already weakened by the long struggle on the road to Prokhorovka. Indeed, Stalin...hoped to cut off the other two elements of Army Group South, the First Panzer and Sixth Armies, by advancing 180 kilometers through Khar'kov to Dnepropetrovsk and then on to the Black Sea coast."(Glantz 241). These goals, while wide-ranging and far-fetched for the exhausted forces of much of the Soviets were indicative of the confidence that permeated the Soviet leadership following their victories at Stalingrad, the Caucuses, and now by blunting the German spear at Kursk. More than this, the possibility of a monumental victory for the Soviets was enhanced by the fact that much of the striking force of the German's southern pincer, however, depleted, was being moved away from their concentration in the area both to help stem the tide of Soviet attacks in the north and prepare for the defense of Italy following swift Allied successes. In addition, the Soviets launched diversionary attacks to the South in the Donbas region to pull focus away from the imminent attack on Belgorod and Khar'kov. Despite many of the Soviet forces being significantly below strength, a large number of forces from Ivan Konev's Steppe Front had been called forward; Glantz describes the overwhelming numerical superiority of the Soviets saying, "By the time Rumiantsev commenced, the *Stavka* had concentrated 980,588 men, 12,627 guns and mortars, and 2,439 tanks and self-propelled guns for the attack. The German defenders could muster scarcely 210,000 men and approximately 250 tanks and assault guns."(Glantz 246). However exhausted some of the frontline Soviet troops were, it was nothing compared to the exhaustion of the Germans who had just retreated from their penetrations near Prokhorovka and were about to face a ten-to-one numerical inferiority in armor in the coming counteroffensive.

Operation Rumiantsev began on the third of August with a massive artillery barrage followed by sappers and then the first tank corps by early afternoon. The German defenders were not completely driven over, and the offensive was not uniformly successful, though, by the end of the first day, the Soviets had made significant gains. As much as 25 kilometers for some tank forces, and 8-10 kilometers for much of the infantry. Glantz describes the growing Soviet power with unusual verbosity, which perhaps underlines the magnitude of the Soviet offensive, "For the weary German infantry, it was as if their beaten opponent had risen from the grave with renewed strength. In one day the attacks had torn a ten-kilometer gap between the two German armies. A regiment of the 167th Infantry division almost ceased to exist on 3 August,"(Glantz 247). Those German forces which had been scheduled to be shuffled to other hot spots along the front were rushed back to the front lines in an attempt to plug gaps. German forces managed to set up strong blocking positions at major junctions such as Tomarovka, but the Soviets had sufficient numbers to detach forces to hold these blocking forces in place while the rest bypassed these blocking positions. Eventually, the pace of the Soviet advances towards Bogoduchov slowed, mostly due to the return of the SS Panzer Divisions which had been scheduled to move to other parts of the front however the advance towards the major city of Khar'kov continued without major resistance. As Soviet forces began to edge toward the encirclement of Khar'kov, Hitler delivered one of his characteristic orders to hold the city at all costs, exactly what had doomed the 6th Army at Stalingrad. After the destruction of large parts of the defending German forces by concerted artillery bombardment from numerically superior Soviet artillery, Hitler finally relented and allowed the bedraggled remains of the German divisions to retreat from the city. Glantz illustrates the effect of Operation Rumiantsev on the German forces unlucky enough to face it, saying, "The 255th and 57th Infantry Divisions emerged from the operation with 3,336 and 1,791 men, respectively. The 332, which had already suffered heavily in Citadel, was reduced to a strength of 342 men. One regiment of the 112th Infantry Division had but 1 officer and 45 men."(Glantz 252). For these losses inflicted upon the Germans, the Soviets did pay a heavy price, with approximately a quarter of a million men dead, and a huge percentage of its tank forces the difference was that the Soviets had the resources to steadily rebuild their destroyed formations while the Germans would have to fight on an increasing number of fronts with the same depleted forces.

In conclusion, the Battle of Kursk was an indisputable turning point in the war on the Eastern Front of WWII. Overshadowed by the more historically remarked upon Battles of Stalingrad and the invasion of Normandy, the Battle of Kursk provided a decisive victory for the Soviets and drained the most elite German formations in dramatic fashion such that they would never again be able to mount a major offensive on the Eastern Front. Greater than just the Battle itself were the two counteroffensives spawned by the defensive battle at Kursk, Operation Kutuzov, and Rumiantsev. These two operations, while neither achieved the overly ambitious goals the Soviet high command set for them were still major actions in their own right and played meaningful parts in setting up further Soviet advances and the eventual collapse of German forces in the east. The Soviets would, from a starting point in the fields at Kursk advance steadily westward, knocking out Germany's allies Hungary and Romania, and eventually reaching the gates of Berlin itself. David Glantz's work in "The Battle of Kursk" tells the story not through the sensationalized eyes of the troops on the ground, but through the more objective eyes of the operational and strategic levels of command. Avoiding the pitfalls of every other in-the-trenches account of the battle, Glantz's objective and analytical approach to the battle provides a fuller picture of the battle and its far-reaching effects on the war in the East - setting an example for how large and complex military history should be distilled into a readable and informative work that can be enjoyed by the layman and the historian alike.