### Andrew Garber
### Feb 9
### "Battle of Kursk" by David Glantz Outline

# Introduction
 - State what led to the establishment of the Kursk Salient, notably the Battle of Stalingrad and the following Soviet offensive: Operation Uranus. This was then followed by a German counteroffensive led by General von Manstein, leading to the victory at Kharkov and the establishment of a massive bulge in the German front line around the city of Kursk.
 - State what is different about Glantz's book compared to other books on the subject. Glantz's book more heavily focuses on the analytical, top down approach to the battle, whereas other books narrate the battle from the combined perspectives of individuals to form a coherent narrative. Glantz goes out of his way to debunk popular narratives of the battle, both relating to its importance and the role of individual events in its outcome.

# The Preparation Phase
 - Glantz challenges the popular narrative that had the battle been launched in early May it would have been an overwhelming German victory in the mold of Operation Barbarossa and Fall Blau. According to the popular narrative, the German's only held off attacking earlier due to Hitler's obsession with his Wunderwaffe(Wonder Weapons), notably including the Ferdinand tank destroyer and the Panther tank. Glantz, through the inclusion of both Soviet and German sources, proves that both sides were undergoing significant refitting and reorganization of their forces as both armies were considerably weakened by previous fighting.
 - Glantz goes through a thorough description of the widespread dispositions of the forces surrounding the Kursk Salient, and his thoughtful analysis of the important Soviet and German leaders involved in the battle. 
 - Glantz then goes into detail about why both sides were actually committed to fighting at all around Kursk, despite holding little economic and political value, and little strategic value outside of the stretching of both armies' lines and some of the railways. The Germans absolutely needed a win at Kursk in order to boost flagging morale and whittle down the Soviet forces, which by this point were numerically superior in men and equipment. The Soviets were committed at Kursk because of the belief that the Germans were on the verge of total collapse, and that a victory at Kursk would grind down the German forces enough for massive Soviet offensives to follow much more easily. In Glantz's words, "Under the circumstances it was politically impossible for Germany to surrender the initiative on the Eastern Front. Although only fanatics believed that the Soviets could be decisively defeated, most senior leaders recognized the necessity for a renewed offensive."(P. 21)
 - Glantz then discusses the relevant comparisons of aircraft, tanks and artillery between the two sides. While the Soviets were numerically superior in all of these, the Germans had a minor technical advantage and far more experienced crews. 
 - Glantz then discusses the major essence of the Soviet and German plans for the battle. The Germans were attempting a dual push to encircle the Soviet bulge, with a northern pincer being launched by Walter Model's 9th Army, with 335,000 men, 590 tanks and 424 assault guns. Glantz repeatedly notes Model's opposition to the Kursk attack at all, arguing that due to delays the Soviets had constructed defenses too formidable to penetrate. In the South, Field Marshal Erich von Manstein had the stronger concentration of forces with Fourth Panzer Army under Hermann Hoth and the ad-hoc group, Army Group Kempf. Both of these were equipped with 1269 tanks and 245 assault guns, many of which were new Panther, Tiger and Elephant weapons. Including those formations not commited to the battle, the Germans fielded an impressive force of 780,900 men and 2,696 tanks. These two pincers were to attack the well entrenched positions of the Soviets, with multiple defensive lines manned by 1,910,361 men and 5,040 tanks.