### Andrew Garber
### January 30
### AP STATS
### Chapter 14: Tests of Significance

#### 14.1 Hypothesis Testing: The Basics
 - We define hypothesis test as the formal procedures that statisticians use to test whether a hypothesis can be accepted or not. A hypothesis is an assumption about something. For example, a hypothesis about family pets could be something like the average number of dogs per American household is less than two. It isn't something you KNOW, but if you can test it and find whether it is acceptable or not.
 - There is a proper four-step method in performing a proper hypothesis test: Write the hypothesis, Create an analysis plan, Analyze the data, Interpret the results.
 - The first step is that of writing the hypothesis. You actually have two hypotheses to write. One is called the null hypothesis. This is the hypothesis based on chance. Think of this as the hypothesis that states how you would expect things to work without any external factors to change it. The other hypothesis is called the alternative hypothesis. This is the hypothesis that shows a change from the null hypothesis that is caused by something. The world isn't perfect, so having an alternative hypothesis "banked" is important. When writing them, you must do so that they are mutually exclusive. For example, the null hyptothesis could be that the average number of dogs per American household is less than two, and the alternative hypothesis could be that the average number of dogs per American household is greater than two two. These are mutually exclusive because they are opposites of each other. You can't have both be true at the same time.
 - The second step is to create an analysis plan. This involves deciding how to read your results to know whether your null hypothesis is true or your alternative hypothesis is true. Usually, this involves analyzing just one single test statistic.
 - There are two ways to read your results: P-value method and the region of acceptance method. The P-value is the probability of observing the desired statistic. If this P-value is less than the significance level, then the null hypothesis is not valid. The significance level is the probability of making the mistake of saying that the null hypothesis is not valid when it actually is true. The region of acceptance is a chosen range of values that results in the null hypothesis being stated as valid. For example, if the region of acceptance is 99% and there is >99% probabiltiy that the null hypothesis is true, then the null hypothesis is valid. If it is < 99%, then the null hypothesis is not valid and the alternative hypothesis is valid.
 - The third step is that of analyzing the data. It is the putting step two into action. It is in this step that the data is analyzed and either a P-value is found, or the data's region is found, > or < than the significance level desired.
 - The fourth step involves interpreting the results. It is in this step that the data is compared to the region of acceptance or the significance level. If the P-value is less than the significance level, then the null hypothesis is not valid. If the data is within the region of acceptance, then the null hypothesis is valid.

#### 14.2. Conducting Hypothesis Testing for a Mean
 - For doing an average hypothesis test, it is better to use the p-value method. When calculating the p-value, if it is very low, then the null hypothesis is very unlikely to be true. If it is high, then the null hypothesis is likely to be true.
 - First, the t-statistic must be found. This is done by using the formula: t = (xbar - mu)/(s/sqrt(n)). The xbar is the sample mean, the mu is the population mean, the s is the sample standard deviation, and the n is the sample size.
 - For example, if you were trying to calculate IQ average in a group, if the average was 110 that would be the xbar - if the population average was 100, that would be the mu - if the sample standard deviation was 10, that would be the s - and if the sample size was 30, that would be the n. So, the t-statistic would be (110 - 100)/(10/sqrt(30)) = 5.476. 
 - Next, the degrees of freedom must be found. This is done by using the formula: df = n - 1. The n is the sample size. So, if the sample size was 30, the degrees of freedom would be 29.
 - Next, the alpha value has to be found. This is something that you choose - generally it is 0.01, 0.05, or 0.10. For the purposes of this example, we will use 0.05.
 - Finally is the t-table - this is something that can be found online, and you cross-check the degrees of freedom with the alpha value to find the critical value. With 29 degrees of freedom and 0.05 alpha value, the critical value is 1.699. Since that t-critical is less than the t-statistic, the value is accepted.
