### Andrew Garber
### 12th Grade English
### Geniuses

Our society has desired a definition of genius for centuries to build the twelve-step program to genius: something we can practically do, or something handed to the lucky few by fate. Our modern search for the definition of genius for our purposes first requires looking at the ancients' conception of it: it comes from Latin, meaning "to bring into being." This definition is not helpful in itself, but how the Romans saw genius is--as a spirit that accompanied individuals throughout their lives, guiding them to greater things; not as a trait. We today see genius as a trait, something of birth that some people have and others do not, but for the Romans, it was a spirit that could be called upon to help them in their endeavors. This is a more helpful definition, as it allows for the possibility of genius in everyone, not just a select few - it allows for all to take the effort to nurture their genius and compensate for those areas outside of it. In a search to quantify, dissect, and understand the individual qualities of two of the greatest examples of genius, three examples emerged instead. While not the intention, in reading about the lives of Alfred Sloan and Leonardo da Vinci, a spectrum of genius began to emerge: on one end, a genius of organization and structure, of control and information processing; on the other, a genius of creativity and childlike wonder, of continual learning and exploration. With this spectrum in mind, a halfway house of a genius emerged, whose spectacular success and even more spectacular failure, was due to just enough of each to make great strides but never to keep them: our third genius, Billy Durant.

Alfred Sloan's genius, the nature of the spirit that guided him, was one of organizational structure and control. Born in 1875, Sloan studied engineering but left the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to work for a ball-bearing company in New Jersey called Hyatt Roller Bearing. After leaving briefly to work in refrigeration his Father and an associate of his put together a new round of investment to allow the company to stay in business under the condition that Sloan be given significant authority. In 1898, with six months to see what he could do with it, and with the assistance of Peter Steenstrup, he took charge of Hyatt. As Sloan put it tersely in his autobiography/management primer, "At the end of six months we had made some advances in volume and economy, and a $12,000 profit, and that put the business in a position where we recognized that it might be successful. I assumed the high title of general manager. I could not know that through Hyatt I had entered one of the headwaters of General Motors (Sloan, 18)". While this is an impressive start, the first great manifestation of his genius was in 1916, when Billy Durant offered to buy Hyatt and fold it in as part supplier under the General Motors umbrella. Sloan's clear and concise calculation of the market and organizational conditions that made the sale worthwhile can only be described as a manifestation of his genius, "Ford alone represented about half of the sales. This business if lost could not be replaced because no new customer of such magnitude existed ... Second, I recognized that the kind of roller bearing we made at that time was destined through the evolution of automobile design to be supplemented and perhaps superseded by other types. And what then?"(Sloan, 23). Sloan's genius allowed him to see that the good days of a one-product Hyatt could not last, and when the opportunity to be absorbed by General Motors came, he took it. Sloan's rise to President of General Motors in 1923 was rapid and his actions in that post deserving of plaudits, but one thing during his time as just one of many high-level executives at General Motors will go down as his greatest stroke of genius: he saw the problems that the decentralized, uncoordinated, intra-competitive structure of General Motors was causing *before* they became a problem, and offered a plan that would solve them. 

This plan was the direct descendant of the crisis of 1920, based on the organizational structure put in place by Durant in his rapid expansion of General Motors into a behemoth of many concerns, and the lack of coordination between operators of specific divisions of General Motors, when the industry stopped growing by leaps and bounds and finally contracted, General Motors was caught out. Sloan described the general situation well, preceded immediately by his admission that he didn't see it coming either, "Total corporation inventories in January 120 had stood at $137 million; in April at $168 million; in June at $185 million; in October at $209 million, exceeding by $59 million the limit set in May ... In September the bottom dropped out of the automobile market. ... Mr. Durant, supported by the division sales manager, attempted for a time to maintain prices ... In November all the major car-producing divisions, except Buick and Cadillac, had virtually shut down their plants, and those two were operating at reduced rates ... Before these events took place I had become increasingly disturbed by the trend of affairs inside General Motors. In late 1919 and early 1920, I developed a plan of organization intended to correct deficiencies in the operating organization and presented it to Mr. Durant. He appeared to accept it favorably, though he did nothing about it. I think this was due in part to the fact that he was not prepared then to take up organizational matters; he was over-burdened with all manner of immediate operating and personal financial problems which made it extremely difficult for him to consider a broad plan of this kind (Sloan 31)." While that last sentence may seem a forgiveness for Durant's failure, it was, in fact, a cutting indictment of his management style: in Sloan's organizational genius, he saw that having an organization dependent on their chief executive for the day-to-day management and operational decisions was strictly limited and that the organization needed to be restructured to allow for more coordination between divisions and a strong central staff organization be established. The specifics of Sloan's plan are out of the scope of this examination, but the results of it are not: the plan was not adopted, and General Motors was caught out by the market contraction of 1920. Durant was forced out of the company--partly due to outside criticism of his management, partly due to the massive debts he had run up--and Pierre Du  Pont became interim president. This transitioned to Sloan in 1923, and under his leadership, General Motors became the largest corporation in the world, weathered the Great Depression, and became the model for corporate management in the 20th century. Sloan's genius was his ability to read the market--not magical foresight, but a clear understanding of the conditions that made the market what it was--and his ability to see how that would affect General Motors, specifically in how its organization was structured to respond to those conditions. This manifested in the day-to-day as an unparalleled understanding of the quantifiable nature of the market and organizations, and how to build organizations resilient to the unquantifiables--contrary to frequent criticisms of him as overly calculating--and allowed him to build General Motors into the behemoth it became.

At the other end of the spectrum of genius, we find Leonardo da Vinci. Born in 1452 in Vinci, Italy, Leonardo was the illegitimate son of a notary and thus his path to a "normal" place in society was made far more difficult(though not impossible) by his birth. Much of Leonardo's genius we see manifested later in his paintings/architecture/engineering/sculpture and notebooks is first seen, in stark relief relative to the standard for his Father's class in society, in his childhood, and largely because he was illegitimate, as Walter Isaacson describes in his biography of Leonardo, "Illegitimacy freed some imaginary and free-spirited young men to be creative at a time when creativity was increasing rewarded ... Being born out of wedlock was more complex than merely being an outsider. It created an ambiguity of status ... That helped some be, or forced them to be, more adventurous and improvisational (Isaacson, 16.)" This ambiguity of status and the freedom it gave him to be creative was, in fact not a manifestation of his genius but an accelerant to it, as his genius was not in the organization of his life or his work, but in the creativity and wonder he brought to it. His defining trait, greater than his painting or his shading, was his childlike wonder at the world, and his desire to understand it. He once signed his name, "Leonardo da Vinci, discepolo della sperientia (Issacson, 17)," literally 'disciple of experience'. This was both him trying to cover his lack of formal schooling and his viewpoint of the world: that the best way to learn was to experience, going around sketching flowers instead of copying the "greats" and to learn about new concepts by trying to see them for what they were, not what they were supposed to be. Issacson defined his method as "rooted in experiment, curiosity, and the ability to marvel at phenomena that the rest of us rarely pause to ponder after we've outgrown our wonder years (Isaacson, 18)." His genius was his ability to take in the world fresh, anew every day, and to translate that--as no one else could--into his art and his engineering. 

We see this most clearly not in his paintings, or the twenty-five-foot-tall horse statue he was contrasted to build for the Duke of Milan, but in his notebooks. These are filled with sketches of everything from the human body to the flight of birds, and his thoughts on everything from the nature of water to the nature of the universe. His notebooks are *the* examples of his genius actively at work, making connections between things that no one else would have thought to connect, and seeing the world in a way that no one else would have thought to see it, "The juxtapositions can seem haphazard, and to some extent they are; we watch his mind and pen leap from an insight about mechanics, to a doodle of hair curls and water eddies, to a drawing of a face, to an ingenious contraption, to an anatomical sketch, all accompanied by mirror-script notes and musings. But the joy of these juxtapositions is that they allow us to marvel at the beauty of a universal mind as it wanders exuberantly in a free-range fashion over the arts and sciences and, by doing so, senses the connections in our cosmos (Isaacson, 108)." His observation of the world, and then his free-form connection of these things as they flowed out of him onto the page is the essence of his genius, and the purest distillation of the Roman conception of genius as a spirit that guided him to *his* greater things, the things that only his unique perspective and his unique genius could have brought into our world; thankfully for us, he did. The counter to this genius was a near-pathological inability to finish anything, as he was always moving on to the next thing, the next idea, the next connection, and the next wonder--this was a function of his genius, but not one that allowed him to keep his creations, or his ideas, in one place: within his focus. There exist many examples of this, but the most famous is undoubtedly the Mona Lisa, which he worked on for 16 years, and never finished to his satisfaction. This was a feature of his genius, not a bug, as his genius was in the conception of the wonder of the world, not in the hard grind of finishing a painting, or a statue: why finish one thing when there are so many more to see, to wonder at, to connect? This is a deeply unsatisfying thing for us, as we marvel at the beauty of his half-finished works--it has been called, perhaps rightly, procrastination--and wonder what they could have been had he spent a little less time doodling in his notebooks and a little more time finishing his commissions, but if not for this, we would not have them in the first place.

In the middle of the spectrum of genius between da Vinci and Sloan, we find William Crapo Durant(Billy, to everyone who knew him). Born in 1861, Durant was a natural salesman, and the greatest example of the "people-person" management style--he believed, at a functional level, that the best way to manage a company was to have it be a web of personal connections so that everyone knew what to expect from everyone else. He was also a man of monumental work volume, repeated anecdotes of him describe the number of telephones he surrounded himself with, and his constant calling-upon of local managers whenever he was in their city, to make minor(or not so minor) changes to their operations. This incorporated a great deal of the "spirit" of genius that the Romans saw in their conception of genius, as Durant's genius was not in the organization of the company, but an understanding of people and what made them tick depending on their natures. He had a feel for what people would want, and how to get them to do what he wanted, and he used this to build General Motors into the behemoth that Sloan would later take over. In a story that resonates deeply with the later Silicon Valley ethos of "move fast and break things," Durant(in 1886) was strolling down the street in Flint, Michigan, when he saw a horse-drawn carriage driven by his friend, John Alger, of an unusual design. According to William Pelfrey, "whose two wheels were four feet in diameter and whose  seat and axle looked too frail to take a bump or a sharp turn without tipping over (Pelfrey 28)." Despite being unnerved by the design, Durant was worried that he would be late for a meeting, so he hopped in the carriage and asked Alger to drive him. The carriage was so fast, and so smooth, that Durant was an immediate believer and "saw that the odd-looking contraption was perfect for a market niche that no one else had focused on--short trips involving little cargo and needing less power than the traditional wagon or carriage, but requiring more than just a horse and saddle; in essence, the first commuter vehicle (Pelfrey 28)." While this appears to show his genius, his next actions were classic Durant: the company who had built them, the Coldwater Cart Company, 120 miles from Detroit. He was on a train the next day to see the company, negotiated them to a sale for $1,500 (just under $50,000 in 2024), and then went to "approach a man and an institution with whom he had never done business: Robert Whaley, president of Citizens National Bank. Within minutes of sitting down in Whaley's office, Durant had his $2,000 ... Breaking the news to his friend Dallas Dort [whom he had been talking to when Alger showed up originally and had seen the carriage] Billy also soon had additional working capital thrown at him. Dort explained that he was bored with the hardware business and asked Durant if he could use a partner, Billy did not hesitate to say yes (Pelfrey 29-31). Despite not having *any* manufacturing, distribution, or supply chain set up, Billy Durant was now in the carriage business, and he was going to do what he did best, sell them. At just the time that he had bought it, there was a fair ongoing in neighboring Wisconsin, and he took the one carriage he had, demonstrated them in a competition against all-comers, and won the blue ribbon. He took orders for 100 carriages and stopped through Milwaukee on his way back and picked up another 35, and then Chicago. As Pelfrey tersely puts it, "By the time Billy stepped off the train in Flint, he had 600 orders in his pocket. He and partner Dort had not yet built a single cart, nor did they have a shop or factory in which to build one (Pelfrey 33)." This was the true beginning of Durant the magnate, the greatest salesman of his time, and the man who would forge an industrial empire and lose it twice. 

His genius was in the people, in making things grow rapidly, racking up sales, and making stock speculation look good - he held the artistry, the *je-ne-sais-quoi* of da Vinci painting, but in the business world that Sloan mastered to his concepts of control and structure. This was his genius, and then his downfall, because--partly of his genius, partly of his nature--he needed the next hit of 'striking gold' to keep him going, much as Leondardo needed to go on to the next wonder. After gaining back General Motors through stock speculations on Chevrolet stock(a company he founded, and then swallowed General Motors with), he bought more General Motors stock on the margin of his stock to try and prop up the stock price, and when the crisis of 1923 hit, he had to be bailed out by the Du Pont family, who forced him out of a company he described as his "baby." He tried a series of other speculations, deals, and companies, always garnering attention and never success. He eventually ran out of money, lived on a $10,000 per year subsidy from a number of the directors of General Motors, and died in 1947. Durant had some of the flair of da Vinci, some of the control of Sloan, but never enough of either to make it in their worlds and too much of both to make it in his own: his genius was in the middle, and had he left the operations to someone else he might have been able to keep his empire, but just as da Vinci couldn't finish his paintings: a feature of his genius, not a bug; Sloan couldn't not be dependent on numbers to measure the world: a feature of his genius, not a bug; Durant couldn't not be on the hunt of what he thought would be the next big thing: a feature of his genius, not a bug.

Genius is a trait that the modern world has consigned to the buckets of chance or fate, but in the ancient conception of it, it was a spirit that guided individuals to their greater things. This far more optimistic, more opportunistic, and more inclusive view of genius is the one that we should adopt, as it follows the obvious conclusion that genius rests in all of us. The nature of that genius, and the way it manifests, is different for everyone, and the examples of Alfred Sloan, Leonardo da Vinci, and Billy Durant show that the spectrum of genius is wide, and its strengths and weaknesses are inclusive to its nature not outside of it. Sloan's genius was in the organization of the world through a lens he could understand and measure, and over time grew an intuitive feel for. His genius led him to the making of the modern corporation. Da Vinci's genius was in the wonder of the world, and the connections he could make between things that no one else could see. His genius led him to the making of some of the greatest pieces of art, some of the most imaginative pieces of engineering, and one of the greatest examples of the human mind at work. Durant's genius was in the people, in his deep understanding of what made them do what they did, and how to get them to do what he wanted. His genius led him to the making of the foundations that Sloan weaved together into a behemoth, through a range of perspective and understanding that da Vinci would have admired. Genius is not a trait, but a part of the human spirit that guides us on our paths to greatness and understanding, discounting the view of the majority, the status quo, and the naysayers. Genius is in all of humanity, save for those who stamp it out of their own volition, and consign themselves to the belief that they are not capable of greatness, that they were not selected for it.


### Sources:
Sloan, Alfred. *My Years with General Motors*. New York: Doubleday, 1963. Print.
William Pelfrey. *Billy, Alfred, and General Motors: The Story of Two Unique Men. A legendary Company. And A Remarkable Time in American History*. New York: AMACOM, 2006. Print.
Isaacson, Walter. *Leonardo da Vinci*. New York: Simon & Schuster, 2017. Print. 
