### Andrew Garber
### September 26 2023
### Western Civilization 1
### Summary Session: City States and Extremism

#### Prompt: Why did the governmental structure of city states(instead of Empires) lead to more extreme political and cultural doctrines?


In any wide ranging view of history, patterns in the rise and fall of civilizations and states become apparent. One such pattern is the general nature of civilizations to centralize, and expand their power until such a point as an outside polity, or the structural pressure of controlling a large area, causes the area of a state to stop expanding. All throughout the ancient world, this pattern repeated itself with one notable exception: Greece. The Greek city states, while they did expand their land mass, never unified the entire area we now know of as modern Greece, and instead merely controlled some swathes of the mainland and the islands. This lack of centralization, but an extremely similar social and political foundation, led to a unique case study on the extremism of political and cultural doctrines that develop in insular states.

The two most notable examples of this extremism in both the political and cultural realms are the two most famous city-states of Ancient Greece, Sparta and Athens. While democracy might appear the least extreme political doctrine to the modern Western mind, it was a truly radical idea in the ancient world. The idea that the people should have some say in government was not all-together unheard of, but the level of participation and power that the people of Athens were afforded was unparalleled - and would not be matched for hundreds of years. Athenian democracy was largely direct, as such there an Athenian citizen could just show up to the assembly and start arguing for a specific policy or direction the government should take. More than this, the military strength of Athens was greater than that of its aristocratic neighbors, and the Athenian navy was the most powerful in the Mediterranean at the time by a wide margin - largely due to the citizen participation in it. This combination of military and political power, and the fact that it was held by the people, was by any measure an extreme political and social development.

Sparta, on the other hand, was an extreme in the opposite direction. The word "spartan" today means austere, and indifferent to luxuries or comforts. This is largely indiciative of what Ancient Sparta was actually like, a cultural and political system focused on entirely on war - and the cultivation of the perfect warrior. To this end, the Spartan political system was a strange amalgamation of a dual monarchy, aristocracy, and semi-democracy. The two kings were the official heads of state and from the two founding families of Sparta, though their main role was as army commanders and war leaders. The true political power lay in the Ephors Council and the Gerousia, the former being an elected council of five Spartan Citizens. This council held the highest concnetration of political power in Sparta, having to be consulted by the Kings and having the authority to declare wars, govern the city, and could reject laws from the Gerousia. The Gerousia consisted of 28 old men, and the two Kings, and was responsible for proposing laws and judging cases. This was a more limited form of power than the Ephors, but still held some sway over the political direction of Sparta. While this might appear to be a form of genuine democracy, the Ephors were generally chosen from the most powerful families in Sparta, and were thus not representative of the people as a whole - though it was theoritically possible for a non-aristocrat to be elected. The same was true for the Gerousia, meaning that both of these bodies were in truth more aristocratic than truly democratic, though this fit the Spartan's need for an effective political structure to back up their warlike aims.

The question that inevitably arises from an examination of the extreme nature of these systems, the former being far more liberal and democratic than the world would see for hundreds of years, the latter being systemically agressive and militaristic, is why these systems became so extreme. The answer to this question is the same for both systems, and Greek city-states in general: geography. The development of city states instead of a singular concentrated polity was entirely due to the geography of Greece being extreme mountainous, with natural barriers over which commerce and communication was difficult. With the Mediterranean right there, and so easy to travel across, the Greeks found it far easier to sail to far off lands and set up colonies to feed the mother-city than try and unify the mainland and associated islands. This led to a system of city states that had a similar social foundation, the concept of the Polis and a near-unified religion, but were politically and socially distinct. By nature of their insularity, and their systemic competition with each other, the Greek city states became more and more extreme in their political and cultural doctrines in order to differentiate themselves from each other. They all looked for advantages over their neighbors, and in order to press these advantages a foundation had to be laid. For the Athenian Navy, a base of citizen participation was needed - an Athenian rower on a trireme was paid more for two months rowing than a year of farming, and thus was highly motivated to do row well. For the Spartan Army, a foundation of land-based military dominance was needed, in order to protect against the threat of a helot uprising, and thus the objectively brutal system of training and social organization was the natural result. When looked at in the context of geography and competition between the city states, the reasons for the extreme nature of the political and cultural doctrines of the Greek city states relative to the standard oligarchic or monarchic systems of the time become clear.