### Andrew Garber
### December 22
### CLEP Western Civilization 1
### Effects of Gunpowder Summary Session

#### Research/Sources
 - [Encyclopedia.com "The Invention of Gunpowder And Its Introduction Into Europe"](https://www.encyclopedia.com/science/encyclopedias-almanacs-transcripts-and-maps/invention-gunpowder-and-its-introduction-europe)
 - [Britannica.com "The Gunpowder Revolution"](https://www.britannica.com/technology/military-technology/The-gunpowder-revolution-c-1300-1650)
 - [Barron's "From Gunpowder to World Domination"](https://www.barrons.com/articles/from-gunpowder-to-world-domination-1453527156)
 - ##### MAIN POINTS:
    - The precise date of invention, or even how it got to Europe is unknown, but it is believed to have been invented in China around the 9th or 10th century. It is quite possible that it was invented independently in Europe, the Middle East, and China, but the Chinese were the first to use it in warfare(signal rockets). 


#### Summary Session
##### Conclusion
Modern warfare is very efficient; it allows a small number of people to kill or injure a large number of people in a short amount of time at relatively low risk to themselves. This can be put almost exclusively upon the invention of gunpowder and its downstream effects as the revolutionary step that allowed not only warfare to progress to previously unimaginable levels of murderous efficiency but also for the development of modern industry and, in many ways, modern science and society.

##### Effects On Warfare
Gunpowders most popular connotation is with warfare, and for good reason. It was the first true great step away from the traditional methods of warfare, and the weapons used to fight them, that had been used for thousands of years. The first records of gunpowder come from China in the 10th century where it was first used in religious ceremonies - the cracking and popping was given a mystical significance - but it was soon to show up in warfare. The first military use of gunpowder by the Chinese was not as a projectile weapon but as a signal rocket as its loud popping, bright light, and higher altittude than anything else on the battle field made it easy to see and recognize as a message. Before long however, the Chinese were using gunpowder in warfare with primitive cannons made of bamboo, though these likely resembled flamethrowers more than true cannons. Depsite this early monopoly on gunpowder and its development, the Chinese development efforts eventually stagnated. 

How the Arab would came to possess gunpowder is not clear as the records are comparatively thin, it is believed by historians that they either developed it organically or got it in trade with the Mongols who acted as a bridge between the Far East and the Middle East. The Arabs hold the distinction of being the first to make a true "gun" using gunpowder, combining the explosive powder with a bamboo tube reinforced with iron rings. Given the timeline here, it is more likely in my opinion that the Arabs developed gunpowder independently, and had been working with it for longer than the historical record shows, as this level of weapon making sophistication far exceeded the Chinese despite apparently having gunpowder for a far shorter amount of time. Still, the Arabs also stagnated in their development of gunpowder, and it was not until the Europeans got their hands on it that it would truly be developed to its full potential.

The first true masters of gunpowder would not be the Arabs or Chinese though, but the Europeans. The mythology of how the Europeans came to possess gunpowder is similar to that of the Arabs, as there are strong historical records supporting the import and independent development theories. To support the theory of having imported it, they had ready access to trade with the Middle and Far East through the Mediterranean and the Silk Road, and the Crusades had helped to bring back many new technologies and ideas from the Middle East. The greatest historical support for the independent development theory is a manuscript by a Franciscan friar named Roger Bacon who wrote about it in a cryptic Latin anagram giving instructions and ratios on how to make gunpowder. Whether this means he picked it up by way of reading Arabic manuscripts or witnessed it first hand is unknown, but either way the knowledge of gunpowder production was in Euroope by the 13th century. The Europeans took the knowledge of gunpowder and ran with it, developing cannons, firearms, and explosives to a level far beyond what the Chinese or Arabs had done - by 1326 the use of cannons in warfare was recorded in Italy, and and word of firearms being sold as commodities from Ghent to England was recorded in 1314. 

Before long, distinctly separate variatiosn of gunpowder weapons were being developed - artillery for sieges and direct fire suppport(acting as an increasingly effective counter to massed heavy cavalry), and personal firearms(not yet 'rifles', because they were not rifled) for infantry. The development of these weapons was not without its problems, as the first cannons were prone to exploding and the first firearms were not very accurate, but these problems and others were high priorities to solve and iterative improvements were made. In addition, the gunpowder itself - in its manufacturing process and chemical composition - was also improved upon, being made in ever greater quantities using water mills to grind the ingredients and being made more powerful through the uniformity of the end powder.

##### Effects on Industry
The effects on industry of the development of gunpowder were slower to manifest than the effects on warfare, but they were no less profound. The first main industrial applciation was in mining, where putting a barrel of gunpowder in a hole and lighting it was a much more efficient way of breaking up rock and ores than hiring teams of men to swing pickaxes. This led to ever increasing mining yields, which in turn further fueled industrial development by the increased availability of raw materials. This was a virtuous cycle that would continue to feed itself, and then reach overdrive as the industrial revolution began to take hold. The industrial revolution itself was sparked by the development of the steam engine(with the caveat that the Watt steam engine was not the first steam engine, Hero's Aeolipile was fundamentally a steam engine, but was not used for any practical purpose) which was only made possible due to extremely fine tolerance machine tools devleoped for cannon boring. In another virtuous industrial cycle, the steam engine could be used to power finer and more powerful machine tools, which could then be used to make better cannons(or steam engines). The true birth of our industrialized world can be traced back by basic first principles to the effects of gunpowder development.

##### Effects on Science and Society
It is no exaggeration to state that the modern science of chemistry is largely a downstream effect of gunpowder development. One of the greatest improvements in gunpowder's effectiveness and safety(for its user) was the process of "corning" the powder, which involved wetting the powder, crushing and then compressing them to uniform grains. The process of developing this improved type of gunpowder, commonly known as "smokeless powder" was a major driver in improving the art of chemistry. The scientific method, as we know it today, was applied here on a large scale - testing ideas, making observations, suggesting improvements, and trying again. In addition, major leaps in physics were made as well, as the development of cannons and firearms required a better understanding of ballistics and combustion - developments that led to dramatic improvements in our understanding of the world around us. 

##### Conclusion
In conclusion, the invention of gunpowder and its downstream effects on warfare, industry, and science and society were profound and far reaching. While society avoids holding up an instrument of war as one of our foundational technologies, it is undeniable that gunpowder and its effects have shaped the world we live in today. From the industrial society we live in, to the scientific method we use to understand our world, to the way we wage war, gunpowder has been a major driver of change and progress.