### Andrew Garber
### English 12
### December 6 2023
### Two Cities, Three Quotes

#### Prompt
```text
Pick THREE quotes from the section you've read thus far, that answer / correspond to each of the below: 

Pick one quote that is significant to the characterization of ONE of the primary characters.  Remember what characterization is -- it's the "building" / filling-out of the audience's understanding of the character.  Then describe why you've chosen the quote -- what does it tell us about the character? Is it a physical description? Does it reveal a part of the personality? Does it reveal a motive or reason-for-being? Back up the quote with 2-5 sentences of description as above. 

Pick one quote that is significant to the setting in the novel.  What does the text reveal to the audience - what is the author communicating about the setting? Is it important to the story or just a backdrop? Is it moody/what mood is it communicating?  (upbeat/criminal/threatening/chaotic????) m How does the quote reveal how the setting fits into the part of the story you've read thus far? Back up the quote with 2-5 sentences of description as above. 

Pick one quote that is significant to the use of SYMBOLISM in this novel - as much as you've read.  What symbol are you highlighting? What does it represent (to your knowledge / deduction thus far?) Importantly - why does this quote lend flesh / depth / understanding / clarity to the use of this symbol? Back up the quote with 2-5 sentences of description as above.  
```

#### Quote 1
The character of Mr.Lorry is a foundational one for the story of "A Tale of Two Cities". He is the first character introduced in the story, is the lead in driving the plot forward to get Lucie to France and her father, Dr.Manette. From the portion of the book I have read thus far, one of the quotes that best summarizes Mr.Lorry's character is, "Very orderly and methodical he looked, with a hand on each knee, and a loud watch ticking a sonorous sermon under his flapped waistcoat, as though it pitted its gravity and longevity against the levity and evanescence of the brisk fire." This quote is significant to the characterization of Mr.Lorry because it establishes him as more than just orderly and methodical, but rational and dependable. The watch itself is an excellent metaphor for the character of Mr.Lorry, and especially in comparison to his charge, Lucie. Lucie could well be described as "the levity and evanescense of the brisk fire" and Mr.Lorry as "the gravity and longevity", the fundamental grounding force that keeps the story moving forward. Mr.Lorry's fundamental importance is made clear by this quote, and an understanding of his character is made clear by the metaphor of the watch.

#### Quote 2
The setting of "A Tale of Two Cities" is the central mechanism of the story, the dual cities of London and Paris. A quote that summarizes that attitude in Paris(and by extension, the French Revolution) is, "And now that the cloud settled on Saint Antoine, which a momentary gleam had driven from his sacred countenance, the darkness of it was heavy--cold, dirt, sickness, ignorance, and want, were the lords in waiting on the saintly presence--nobles of great power all of them; but, most especially the last." This quote is significant to the setting of the novel because it establishes the attitude, the feeling in the air and in the streets, of the poeple of Paris. The backbone of revolution is the people, and Dickens goes to great lengths to establish the people of Paris as covered in a *heavy* darkness. That word "heavy" is critical, because it inspires a visceral reaction in the reader - the darkness is not some passing thing, not some fleeting phase of the citizenry, but has become a fundamental part of their existence. This is critical to the portrayal of Paris - the central city of the French Revolution - because it contrasts so strikingly with the relative normalcy of London(Dickens did not go out of his way to mention any notable feeling in London, and by extension it is assumed to be normal). This fundamental difference in the two cities is critical to the story, and is established by this quote even without direct comparison to London, simply in relative weight of description.

#### Quote 3
Symbolism is one of Dickens' favorite literary devices, and he uses it to great effect in "A Tale of Two Cities". One of the most important symbols in the story is the wine cask, immediately introduced as soon as the setting moves to Paris, "The wine was red wine, and had stained the ground of the narrow street in the suburb of Saint Antoine, in Paris, where it was spilled. It had stained many hands, too, and many faces, and many naked feet, and many wooden shoes. ... Those who had been greedy with the staves of the cask, had acquired a tigerish smear around the mouth; and one tall joker so besmirched ... scrawled upon a wall with his fingers dipped in muddy wine-lees--BLOOD. The time was to come, when that wine too would be spilled on the street-stones, and when the stain of it would be red upon many there." The symbolism here, unlike in other instances, is not hidden - Dickens goes out of his way to make the relation between the wine cask in the present and the bloodshed of the future clear. When taken in the context of the French Revolution, and the Terror that followed, the symbolism of the wine cask is clear - the blood of the people of France will be spilled in the streets, and the stain of it will be red upon many there. It would stain the hands, faces, feet, and shoes of the people of France, both by proximity and by association. The wine cask is a symbol of the bloodshed to come, and the stain it will leave on the people of France.