### Andrew Garber
### February 6 2024
### English: A Tale of Two Cities

> Prompt: How does Dickens reconcile his distaste for the Revolution with his identity as a social crusader? Does he believe in the people's right to revolt under an oppressive government? Use character development, setting, symbolism etc. to support your thesis. 

In *A Tale of Two Cities*, Charles Dickens uses the character of Charles Darnay to both express his distaste for the mindless violence of the French Revolution and to support the *causes* for which the Revolution was fighting. Darnay's dualism is a reflection of Dickens' own conflicted feelings about the Revolution, with Darnay being a former aristocrat who renounces his title and still being persecuted by the Revolutionaries for his family's past--a clear symbol of the Revolution's indiscriminate violence. In using Darnay as the living symbol of his own conflict regarding the Revolution's goals versus its methods, Dickens adds life to his own internal struggle and makes it a central theme of the novel.

The striking part of the dualism of Darnay is his virulent denunciation of his family's past and his own aristocratic title--it was not a self-serving act to renounce his title, but a genuine moral decision. That a man of clearly established moral character would denounce his own family and title is a clear indication of the moral bankruptcy of the aristocracy, and the need for change. He says so clearly to his uncle, "'We have so asserted our station, both in the old time and in the modern time also', said the nephew, gloomily, 'that I believe our name to be more detested than any name in France.'" (Dickens, p. 136). If this denunciation of his own family's past is not a clear indication of the cruelty and failure of the aristocracy, then his uncle, The Marquis St Evremonde's' response to Darnay's declaration is: "'Let us hope so,' said the uncle. 'Detestation of the high is the involuntary homage of the low.'" (Dickens, p. 136). This clear indication of support for the revolutionary, or more specifically, the anti-aristocratic cause is furthered by the use of setting throughout that same chapter, with the Marquis rolling through the village of his domain in his carriage, and seeing, "Expressive signs of what made them poor, were not wanting; the tax for the state, the tax for the church, the tax for the lord, tax local and tax general, were to be paid here and to be paid there, according to solemn inscription in the little village, until the wonder was that there was any village left unswallowed." (Dickens, p. 128). In a characteristically Dickensian fashion, his extreme clarity and vividness of setting in this instance--counter to his usual use of setting as tertiary to character and symbolism--goes far to establish Darnay as the holder of Dickens' own beliefs about the improvement of the people and repudiation of the aristocracy.

Dickens' distaste for the actions and methods of the Revolution begin not with Darnay himself, but with the knitting of Madame Defarge. The knitting of Madame Defarge is a clear symbol of the Revolution's priority for violence and revenge instead of justice and reform, Dickens says this plainly, "'JOHN', thought madame, checking off her work as her fingers knitted, and her eyes looked at the stranger. 'Stay long enough, and I shall knit 'BARSAD' before you go.'" (Dickens, p. 195). The single-minded obsession with revenge that Madame Defarge characterizes is further established by Dickens, for means of showing his further distaste, by use of setting right after this, "Darkness econmpassed them. Another darkness was closing in as surely, when the church bells, then ringing pleasantly in many an airy steeple over France, should be melted into thundering cannon; when the military drums should be beating to drown a wretched voice, that night all potent as the voice of Power and Plenty, Freedom and Life. So much was closing in about the women who sat kniting, knitting,"(Dickens, p. 200-201). The use of darkness here, seen as a physical manifestaiton of the darkness of the Revolution changes the tone such that the reader is no longer able to support the Revolution simply for it not being the aristocracy. The equal moral vacuity of the Revolution and the aristocracy becomes totally defined by the actions done *to* Darnay upon returning to Paris, rather than the actions done *by* Darnay--this dichotomy maintains the moral high ground of Darnay, and by extension, Dickens in his own beliefs. Upon arriving in Paris, he is immediately detanied and imprisoned for being an emigre, and is only saved from death by the arrival of Dr. Manette, who is able to use his influence to save Darnay. This proves a temporary reprieve, as he is near-immediately arrested again, with no explanation given, "A rude clattering of feet over the floor, and four rough men in red caps, armed with sabres and pistols, entered the room. 'The Citizen Evremonde, called Darnay', said the first. 'Who seeks him?' answered Darnay. 'I seek him. We seek him. I know you, Evremonde; I saw you before the Tribunal to-day. You are again the prisoner of the Republic.' ... 'Tell me how and why am I again a prisoner?' 'It is enough that you return straight to the Conciergerie, and will know to-morrow. You are summoned for to-morrow."(Dickens, p. 308). The seemingly never-ending cycle of imprisonment, followed by release or death, shows the Revolution's maddeningly arbitrary and cruel bloodlust in the clearest possible terms. The Revolution's actions are not those of a just and moral force, but of a force that is as singularly unjust and immoral as the aristocracy it seeks to replace. Having to this happen to Darnay, the character who holds Dickens' own beliefs gives extra weight to his condemnation, making it obvious that no side in the Revolution besides that of a return to true justice and morality is worth supporting.

In conclusion, Dickens uses the character of Charles Darnay to express his own distaste for the Revolution's methods and actions, while still supporting the causes for which the Revolution was fighting. Darnay's actions, and those actions done to him, are a clear reflection of Dickens' distaste for both the methods of the Revolution and the aristocracy. The use of setting and symbolism throughout the novel further establish Darnay as the living embodiment of Dickens' own beliefs, and make it clear that the Revolution's actions are no better than those of the aristocracy. Sydney Carton's sacrifice in taking the place of Darnay to allow him to escape to be with his family and escape Paris entirely is not only the moral rejuvenation of a character who had been morally bankrupt, but also the embodiment of Dickens' eventual conclusion that neither side could be support, symbolized by the escape of Darnay and his family to England.