### Andrew Garber
### Thursday February 8 2024
### A Tale of Two Cities: Duality

> Prompt: The novel is built around opposing pairs.   How/where does Dickens choose to highlight points by using this tool in the novel and evaluate the effectiveness of this tool considering his aims.

In *A Tale of Two Cities*, Charles Dickens relies heavily on the use of duality as a literary device to convey his message. The novel is built around opposing pairs, and Dickens uses this tool to highlight the differences between the two cities, London and Paris, and the characters that inhabit them. The literal movement of the plot is signified by characters moving between Paris and London, and the daulity of their actions in each city. The novel is also built around the duality of two characters, Charles Darnay and Sydney Carton who are used to convey the polar opposite sides of the human condition. While the message of sacrifice and redemption is conveyed very clearly through the use of duality, Dickens' oblique use of the tool for a message about morality and living up to one's potential is also incorporated into the novel.

The duality of Paris and London is so explicit that it is the title of the novel itself. The tranquility of London and fervor of Paris are used to highlight the opposing forces of the human condition, just as the characters of Charles Darnay and Sydney Carton are used to convey the same message. Each character could be said to have a "Paris" or a "London" within him. Darnay's moral repudiaton of the aristocracy and giving up of his title and priveleges is let down by the revolution being as morally corrupt as the aristocracy they are seeking to replace. His leaving Paris to go to London and marry Lucie Manette, the daughter of a man who had been imprisoned in Paris, is a symbol that Paris itself is the embodyment of the hostile, oppressive, and cruel elements of human nature. Mr. Lorry, a banker in London, is the human embodiment of the tranquility, prosperity, and peace that London represents as the antithesis of Paris. His going to Paris to rescue Dr. Manette is a symbol of the human will to transcend our natural desire for ease and comfort to go to the aid of others. He is bringing London to Paris, and in doing so, acting as the flame of hope in the pre-revolutionary Paris.

Once the revolution has begun, and the chaos and bloodlust runs rampant among the population, Sydney Carton, a man described by Dickens as, "idlest and most unpromising of men,"(Dickens, p. 97) is the one who sacrificies himself to live up to his potential. He had previously squandered his life by the comfort and ease of London, with his master Stryver even saying so, "your way is, and always was, a lame way. You summon no energy and purpose.'"(Dickens, p. 100) in his sacrifice he provides a symbol for the potential for greatness of human character. He brought his own inner Paris, the lazy, idle, and unpromising side of himself, to Paris, and there took his chance to have a legacy worth remembering. Dickens, instead of using the duality of Darnay and Carton to finalize a message about the revolution killing innocents indiscriminately, combines the two characters living up to their potentials at once--Darnay by leaving Paris, and living, and Carton by taking Darnay's place at the guillotine, and dying--to complete the message of the novel as one not just about sacrifice and redemption, but about the potential for greatness in all of us.

In conclusion, Dickens uses the duality of Paris and London, and the characters of Darnay and Carton to convey a message about the human condition. The novel is built around polar opposites of people, and of cities representing the human condition. Weaved into the message that we each have our own Paris and London within us, is Dickens' belief that we all have the potential for greatness and that greatness is made manifest in the sacrifice of oneself for a greater good, as Carton does. His use of the tool is more than effective in getting his message across, he combines pairs-of-duality from the novel to make a profound statement about humanity itself.