The gripes regarding Germany and its internal politics affecting the EU, as seen in "Germany is letting a domestic squabble pollute Europe’s green ambitions" is a prime example of intergovernmentalism. At a foundational level, intergovernmentalism is a theory that emphasizes the self-interested behavior of nation states in explaining why international organizations and agreements are made and maintained, and how they can fall apart. At a foundational level, the (previous) coalition government in Germany of the Social Democrats, Greens, and FDP(Free Democrats, who I am admittedly primarily aligned with in my own political views) were not likely bed-fellows, and their internal political squabbles had huge affects on larger EU politics.

The example of the fuels issue is a prime example of how the role of domestic governments within supranational organizations is a crucial factor in the success or failure of international agreements, as intergovernmentalism would suggest. The greens and social democrats were pushing for stronger environemntal legislation in alignment with greater EU policy, while the FDP, while still pro-EU, was pushing for a "loophole"(arguably) in the legislation to allow for the continued use of internal-combustion engines given hopes for green fuels. This internal squabble, and the compromises that Scholz made to appease the FDP and keep the coalition together did slow EU legislation, and the EU's ability to act in a unified manner. This is a central tenet of intergovernmentalism, that domestic governments, being self-interested actors, will often put their own domestic interests ahead of the interests of the supranational organization they are a part of, so only when it is in their larger interest will they act in alignment with the supranational organization and other member states.

Regarding the war in Ukraine, which should have been a rallying call to Germany to take a more actively leading role in opposing Russia, the German government took flak for delaying so much. The frailty of the German government's coalition government, and the internal squabbles between the parties leading to such a delay, is representative of the general philosophy of intergovernmentalism that the domestic politics of member states are the most important factor in the success or failure of supranational organizations.
