### Andrew Garber
### Sunday December 17 2023
### Brave New World
### An Important Point in Chapter 1-3

A point that stood out to me while reading "Brave New World" by Aldous Huxley was during the lecture/conversation between the Director and the students. In the middle of an explanation of a fundamental philosophy of the world that Huxley has created, that "'Moral Education, which ought never in any circumstances, to be rational'"(Huxley 26), the loud speaker in the room interrupts the Director, "'Silence, silence,' whispered a loud speaker as they stepped out at the fourteenth floor, and 'Silence, silence,' the trump mouths indefagitably repeated at intervals down every corridor. The students and even the Director himself rose automatically to the tips of their toes. They were Alphas of course; but even Alphas have been well conditioned."(Huxley 26). This seen stands out because it clearly defines how the importance of the conditioning of obedience is to the society of this world - even while mid-explanation of the conditioning, the conditioning still takes precedence. This was a deliberate choice by Huxley to show the reader immediately and without preamble the level to which society was partitioned, segregated, and conditioned from before birth(as described in previous pages) to be obedient to artificial authority. In the next paragraph, Huxley even describes them as walking on their tip-toes for 50 yards in silence before reaching the dormitory where the unconscious conditioning of the students takes place. The symbolism of the Director, an authority figure, responding innately to the commands of the loud speaker that he administers is a powerful image. Huxley goes to a great length to establish the world that the book takes place as not one in which the masses are under some spell by someone above pulling the strings, but rather one in which the masses are under a spell that they themselves have created, endorse, and are perpetuating. 