### Andrew Garber
### December 12

#### Prompt
 - Both novels examine civil unrest, revolutionary and importantly, the characters involved in fostering that unrest and resolution. 
 - Compare and contrast Hemingway's treatment of civil war in FWTBT and Azuela's perspective on civil uprising in The Underdogs.   Similar situations - are the authors delivering the same message? How do the character developments support the author's purpose?  Which treatment is more effective in your opinion (but NOT in first person!) and WHY / HOW? 
 - This is like 6--7 paragraphs..  Use dialogue, setting, narrative plot points and/or transitions.  Remember not to treat each in a vacuum - I'd like to see how you view these IN COMPARISON to each other. 

#### Response
The early parts of the 20th century were filled with political and social upheavals across the world due to rapid advances in technology and the rise of industrialization, many of these upheavals, unfortunately, led to costly civil wars. The grand scale of these wars and the destruction they caused led to a wave of literature that used the tragedy of war to explore the human societal and political condition. *The Underdogs* by Mariano Azuela and *For Whom The Bell Tolls* by Ernest Hemingway are two novels that do exactly this, set during the Mexican and Spanish civil wars respectively. Comparisons and contrasts between these novels are only natural, as they are set in similar periods, deal with similar subject matters caused by comparable political and socioeconomic conditions, and have shared cultural backgrounds. However, the authors of these novels have different approaches to the subject matter, and the characters they create are used to convey different messages. While the goals of both authors are similar, to explore the dramatic human consequences of war, Azuela focuses more on the descent from a righteous war based on strong ideals to a war based on personal gain, while Hemingway focuses more on the effects of war on individuals.

Azuela's focus on the belief in the cause is not a concept missing from Hemingway's writing, but Azuela endows it as the central focus of his novel and it drives the plot. The novel opens with Demetrio Macias taking to the mountains to fight the people who came after his home and family, arguably the greatest way to gain belief in a fight against tyranny. This is exemplified when Demetrio meets his band, Azuela writes, "'They've burnt my house,' he said. A murmur of oaths, imprecations, and threats rose among them... 'Glory be to God and by His Will,' said Demetrio, 'tonight or tomorrow at the latest we'll meet the Federals. What do you say, boys, shall we let them find their way about these trails?'" This desire for what St. Augustine called a righteous war, one with only the goal of peace, quickly degrades as the story progresses and greed becomes the prime motivator of the revolutionary forces. This is in sharp contrast to Robert Jordan's band, where due both to Hemingway's focus on the struggle of the individual and the objectively smaller number of characters it was not a commonly discussed topic of why they were fighting, it was an internal fight to keep their nerve in the face of almost certain death. The grandest discussion of why they were fighting was during Pilar's monologue, saying, "'My father was the mayor of our town and a Republican. And when the Nationalists took the town, they lined up all the Republicans against the wall. My father cried out very loud, "Long live the Republic." And then they shot him. But my mother was not a Republican. She had no politics, but she loved my father and she couldn't say that. So she just looked at my father who lay there on his face at her feet, and she said, "Long live my husband who was the mayor of this town.'". The fact that Pilar's reason for fighting is not explained until long after she has gained the trust of both the reader and Robert Jordan shows the contrast of Azuela's focus on the cause being first, and the individual second and the inverse is true for Hemingway.

To say that Hemingway solely focused on the individual, and Azuela only focused on the actions of a group would be a simplification of reality - both considered the role of the individual in the group, but due to the differences in storytelling, they were focused differently. Azuela's novel starts in the vein of a sweeping epic, determined to tell the tale of their triumph over corruption and tyranny in the spirit of liberty and justice - but the brilliance of the story comes as this spirit is sapped away. The glory of their cause is well shown by Solis as he describes Demetrio attacking the hill saying, "'The officers, surprised, said nothing. Demetrio's horse seemed to wear eagle's claws instead of hoofs, it soared so swiftly over the rocks... With his rope, Demetrio lassoed the machine guns and carried them off, like a bull herd throwing a steer... That chief of yours is a wonderful soldier!'" The flowery language that Solis uses to describe Demetrio's actions shows the belief in the cause that Demetrio is leading, had the roles been reversed and a Federale officer was the one leading a charge with the heroism of Demetrio they would have decried him as maniacal or stupid to rush in front of machine guns. The later contrast as belief in the cause wanes in favor of blatant opportunism, this is well shown when War Paint is first introduced and they are sitting in the restaurant, Azuela writes, "'Down in Chihuahua I killed a man because I always saw him sitting at the table whenever I went to eat. I hated the looks of him so I just killed him! What the hell could I do!' 'Hmm! I killed....' The theme is inexhaustible". War Paint as a character is the absolute symbol of lack of morality in warfare, as the moment she is introduced she brings about a direct increase in the greed and destruction that the troops carry with them as they march around the country.

The individual focus of Hemingway does not mean that he doesn't consider the actions of the group, but in comparison to the epic themes of Azuela he distills the essence of the group into an individual whose actions are symbolic of the group: Pablo. This is well shown when Roberto and Pablo are in opposition to the bridge operation, Pablo in this case represents the inertia of the group, and Roberto a more collaborative way of warfare with the Republican high command, Hemingway writes, "'I am for the Republic' the. woman of Pablo said happily. 'And the Republic is the bridge. Afterwards we wilt have time for other projects.' 'And thou,' Pablo said bitterly. 'With your head of a seed bull and your heart of a whore. Thou thinkest there will be an after-wards from this bridge? Thou hast an idea of that which will pass?' 'That which must pass,' the woman of Pablo said. 'That which must pass, will pass.' 'And it means nothing to thee to be hunted then like a beast after this thing from which we derive no profit? Nor to die in it?' 'Nothing,' the woman of Pablo said." This conversation between the members of the group, Pilar's effective change in allegiance from the ways of Pablo who had in her mind become a coward after so many bloody battles, and the new way of Robert Jordan who was only a member of the band due to his orders from General Golz. This symbolism of Pablo's wife turning against him and his way of fighting the war in favor of Robert Jordan shows the change in the group in a method of characters as proxies for larger groups.

In conclusion, Hemingway and Azuela tell stories about the horrors of war using characters and their choices in difficult situations to explore the human condition. The characters they create are used for different purposes, with Azuela fitting his characters into the greater narrative of the war and Hemingway applying the war to the individual.  These differences are not only in the way the characters are used but also in the way the characters are written. Azuela's characters are more archetypal, with the characters of the novel being more symbolic of the greater themes of the novel. Hemingway's characters are more realistic, with the characters being more human and flawed - giving the reader an ability to see themselves in the characters. Neither of these approaches is better than the other, but the differences in how they convey a distinctly similar message on the terrible consequences of war are what makes them so fascinating to compare and contrast.


