### Andrew Garber
### January 2024
### CLEP Western Civilization II
### Chapter 1: Absolutism

#### 1.1: Thirty Years' War & The Treaty of Westphalia
 - From 1618 to 1648, a series of conflicts was fought between Roman Catholic and Protestant states, in part to answer the question of what churches European Christians were allowed to attend. These conflicts are known as the Thirty Years' War. This seems like a long time to fight over a fairly minor question, but it was really a major conflict that would drmaatically change the political landscape of Europe.
 - During the sixteenth century, Martin Luther's Protestant Reformation caused Christianity to splinter into numerous sects and subsects. In the Holy Roman Empire, where the Emperor remained a staunch Catholic, members of these sects often had to fight to defend their rights to worship or emigrate to states with princes or monarchs sympathetic to Protestantism. Conflict between the Emperor and an alliance of German princes - named the Schmalkaldic League - that preferred Lutheranism was settled with the 1555 Peace of Augsburg, in which the Emperor Charles V agreed to allow the princes of each state within the Holy Roman Empire to choose either Catholicism or Lutheranism as the religion of their state. This balance was upset by John Calvin's radical preaching(which we know today as Calvinism), which gained more and more following in the middle of the 16th century. 
 - These tensions came to a head in 1618 in the Germanic state of Bohemia. King Matthias of Bohemia, who was also Holy Roman Emperor, had no legitimate heirs and in 1617 named the Archduke of Austria, Ferdinand, heir to the Bohemian throne and likewise put him in line to become Holy Roman Emperor. This alarmed the primarily Calvinist population of Bohemia as Ferdinand was an ardent Catholic. In 1618 the Calvinists revolted, famously by first throwing some of Ferdinand's Catholic advisers out a church window in Prague, an event which became known as the Defenestration of Prague. The Calvinist rebels in Bohemia appealed to the other Protestant states in the Holy Roman Empire for help in throwing off Catholic rule, but their efforts and those of the few allies they found failed; the Bohemians were defeated decisively by Ferdinand - now Holy Roman Emperor Ferdinand II - in 1620 at the Battle of White Mountain. Fredrick V, the Protestant who they had tried to install, was forced to flee the HRE and Ferdinand II began to consolidate his power.
 - Though the Bohemians and their Protestant allies were defeated, fighting began again in 1625 with Denmark's invasion of the Holy Roman Empire on behalf of the Protestant state of Saxony, which the Danish King Christian IV feared might fall to the Catholic states that encircled it. Christian's invasion proved foolish, and Emperor Ferdinand employed the Bohemian nobleman and brilliant general Albrecht von Wallenstein(think of him similar to Moltke in the 1860s-1880s) to repulse the invaders. The Danes were defeated several times in Germany and in their own territory and retreated to the Danish islands where Wallenstein, who was without a fleet, could not reach the Danish forces. In 1629, Christian IV and Ferdinand II signed the Treaty of Lübeck, which returned previously Danish lands to Denmark in return for a pledge that Denmark would no longer interfere in the affairs of the Empire.
 - At this point, the Thirty Years' War gained a new political dimension: with the consolidation of power in the Holy Roman Empire by the Emperor, Ferdinand II, France worried about being surrounded, as the Hapsburg family had members installed as both the King of Spain and the Holy Roman Emperor. Meanwhile, Protestant Sweden worried about the growing Catholic forces of the Holy Roman Emperor and what that would mean for Swedish control of the Baltic Sea. As a result, Sweden landed troops in Pomerania in 1630(and burned a bunch of Prussia as they went) and France and Sweden signed an alliance - despite France being a Catholic country - to aid the Protestant German states. The Swedes scored several victories in the northern and central parts of the Empire, led by their King Gustavus Adolphus, until he died in battle in 1632. After his death, the imperial Catholic forces began to claw back lost territory and in 1635 concluded a peace with the Protestant states of the Holy Roman Empire. The 1635 Treaty of Prague stated that princes of the Holy Roman Empire were not allowed to make alliances and treaties with outside sovereign states and merged the armies of each state within the Holy Roman Empire into one imperial army.
 - The Treaty of Prague angered the French, who quickly realized the Treaty strengthened Hapsburg control over the entirety of the Holy Roman Empire; it was the exact antithesis of the stated French goals for entering the war. As a result, France entered the war directly, declaring war on the Holy Roman Empire in 1636 and on the other Hapsburg-controlled state, Spain, in 1635. The Swedes and several Protestant Germanic states joined the French in continuing the war.
 - After fighting continued, and continued, Ferdinand III(who had taken the throne after his Father's death) sought to finally end the conflict. Over the last several years a series of treaties and ceasefires were signed between France, Spain, Sweden, the Holy Roman Empire, and various Germanic states. These collective agreements became known as the Peace of Westphalia. 
 - Pragmatically, the Peace achieved several things. Some territory changed hands, as France was granted parts of Alsace and Sweden gained part of Pomerania. Calvinists were granted the same degree of toleration in the Holy Roman Empire that Lutherans had been afforded since 1555, and the states of the Holy Roman Empire were granted a greater degree of sovereignty from the imperial throne than they had previously held; indeed, any illusions Emperor Ferdinand III had of retaining strong authority over all of the Holy Roman Empire's provinces and maintaining the Empire as a solely Catholic entity were shattered. 

#### 1.2: Decline of Spain
 - The Seventeenth century saw a decline in Spain's clout and prestige among European and world powers fall, from the heights of being arguably the most powerful state in Europe in the 16th century to a second-rate power by the end of the 17th century. This decline is *still* visible in the modern day with a sub-part industrial sector. Let's take a look at the wider picture, though.
 - It had spent the sixteenth century amassing territories and colonies all along the coasts of the Americas, Africa, and in the south Pacific. Spain expanded its European holdings into parts of southern Italy and, in 1580, Spain successfully invaded its neighbor Portugal, uniting all of the Iberian Peninsula under the Spanish crown. Moreover, in part because of the mines in their South American colonies, Spain had amassed a fortune of gold and silver off of the backs of the indigenous peoples of the Americas.
 - However, Spain's expansion abroad had been completed with little attention paid to the political and social apparatuses at home. At the beginning of the seventeenth century, Spain's taxation system was outdated and fell disproportionately upon the poorest of the Spanish population, who could barely afford to pay anything. What money was paid rarely made it to the Spanish Crown, as local governors and councils siphoned off funds for their own expenses.
 - Spain's bureaucracy was as stilted and ineffectual as its tax system. The system was highly centralized, with all territorial councils and ministers reporting directly to the crown, and the pace of seventeenth-century communication made meaningful actions and orders to the far flung provinces of the Empire painfully slow and often outdated upon arrival. Many of these orders were either too specific, which made them difficult to apply to the local situation, or too vague, which made them difficult to apply at all.
 - The Spanish Crown could weather a poor bureaucracy so long as South American gold and silver continued to flow into its coffers. Unfortunately, the amount of bullion shipped to Spain from the Americas dropped precipitously early in the seventeenth century. The Crown was forced to take out loans and even debased the currency in an attempt to pay its bills, but these measures only exacerbated the problems. Many nations had withered away from the resource curse, and Spain was looking like it might be the next.
 - The evaporation of the Spanish treasury occurred at the very moment when it needed money the most: in the midst of foreign wars and internal rebellion. Spain fought to hold on to the rebellious Dutch provinces until they were finally forced to concede defeat in 1648. Spain similarly lost territory to France after two decades of fighting as part of the Thirty Years' War. To make matters worse, Spain had to contend with revolts in both Portugal and Catalonia. The Catalonians failed to gain independence(some are still trying) but Spain was forced to recognize Portuguese independence in 1668.
 - Spain had enough problems in the seventeenth century without being cursed with a succession of ineffectual monarchs. Philip III, who reigned from 1598 to 1621, has been famously dubbed the 'laziest king in Spanish history' and his son Philip IV was no better, caring more for food, horses, and women than governing. Charles II was so mentally challenged, likely because of generations of inbreeding, that Spain's councils and territories were largely left to their own devices. Charles left no heirs when he died in 1700, and his death touched off a war to decide who would become king of Spain.
 - The decline of Spain created a vacuum in European politics that was filled by French, English, and Dutch interests. Whereas Spain suffered under a lack of direction from its royals, France was ruled in the second half of the seventeenth century by arguably the most successful French monarch ever: Louis XIV, the self-named 'Sun King,' who reigned from 1643 to 1715.
 - France was similarly blessed with excellent advisors to the king, as Cardinal Richelieu, Cardinal Mazarin, and Jean-Baptiste Colbert(all of whom had ships named after them!) proved successful politicians and able economists. Under Louis' reign, France expanded its territories in Europe via wars with the Dutch and Spanish. Abroad, France expanded its American holdings from Canada and Louisiana to include most of North America east of the Appalachians and west of the Mississippi River.
 - As well as France, Great Britain and the Netherlands also did much to swipe as much territory and power from the declining Spain as possible. Both benefited from the large economic shift from South American exploitation to North American colonization and trade with the East Indies. The Dutch, in particular, were able to use their naval power to dominate the East Indies trade, which had previously been dominated by the Portuguese and Spanish. The Dutch East India Company was the first multinational corporation in the world, and it was the largest and most powerful company in the world for much of the seventeenth century. The Dutch also established a colony in South Africa, which they used as a way station for ships traveling to and from the East Indies(eventually these would be swiped by the British).

#### 1.3: The Dutch Golden Age
 - Despite their small size and relative lack of natural resources, the fledgling Dutch Republic of the 16th century was so economically powerful and politically relevant, that the time period is often referred to as the Dutch Golden Age.
 - Prior to the Dutch doing much of anything that could qualify as 'golden,' the Dutch first had to gain independence from Habsburg Spain, who ruled over the Dutch provinces. Rebellion was first instigated for religious reasons, as the Dutch provinces were overwhelmingly Protestant, and many favored a radical, Calvinist interpretation of the Bible. In 1568, the Dutch stadtholder, William of Orange, attempted to wrest control of the Dutch provinces from the Spanish but ultimately failed.
 - After fighting, some more fighting, and then a bit more fighting(Sea Beggars, 12 years truce, and then the Thirty Years' War), the Dutch eventually gained independence as the Dutch Republic. 
 - The territory controlled by the Dutch Republic contained few minerals or natural resources, and large portions of its territory were under sea level, prone to flooding if dikes or windmill pumps failed.
 - In response, the Dutch fostered the growth of internal industries, such as textiles, sugar refining and glass blowing. Most importantly, however, the Dutch were accomplished shipwrights and traders. Their traditional boats, called 'fluyts,' could carry more cargo than the average 17th century trading vessel while also requiring a smaller crew.
 - The Dutch further pioneered financial markets as well, first by creating the public Bank of Amsterdam in 1609 to foster investment and further development of trade and industry. The Dutch also created a commodities market where the goods being loaded and shipped on the docks could be traded publicly.
 - The problem was that ship's crews had little incentive to actually go and make money, as they were paid a flat rate regardless of how much money they made for the company. The Dutch East India Company, which was the largest and most powerful company in the world for much of the seventeenth century, solved this problem by offering shares of the company to its employees. This meant that the employees had a vested interest in the success of the company, and the company was able to raise more money by selling shares to the public. Some basic economic theory here, but incentives matter.
 - Domestic and European success encouraged Dutch exploration and colonization abroad. In the Americas, the Dutch traded in slaves and sugar and founded their own colonies, including what is today New York City, which was first settled by Dutch fur traders in the early 17th century. The Dutch expanded their commercial empire into Africa and Southeast Asia as well, done largely by the Dutch East India Company, instituted in 1602. They also founded colonies on Batavia(Jakarta), Ceylon(Sri Lanka), and the Cape of Good Hope(South Africa).
 - Coupled with this economic prosperity abroad, Dutch society and high culture also experienced a remarkable period of success. The Dutch philosopher Spinoza, often considered one of the fathers of modern rationalism, and some of the greatest painters of the early modern period like van Dyck, Rembrandt, Veermeer and Frans Hals were all products of this period.
 - The Dutch Republic also featured a unique societal construction unlike anywhere else in the period. Whereas the rest of European society had power and patronage centralized in the monarchy, the Republic's lack of a monarchy allowed the successful merchant class to become the most powerful and influential members of society.
 - This whole economic sucess story was powered by strong social mobility, as without an aristoracy and the predominance of the merchant class a person could rise from the bottom to the top of society in a single generation. This was a stark contrast to the rest of Europe, where the aristocracy and the monarchy were the most powerful and influential members of society.

#### 1.5. Limited Monarchy in England
 - By the early 1640s, England's King Charles I had developed a highly acrimonious relationship with his Parliament and subjects, largely revolving around differences concerning England's religious settlement and Parliament's role in governance. Also some tax related issues, but that was a comparatively minor issue.
 - In January 1642, Charles fled London to raise an army against Parliament. Parliament raised its own, and the two sides fought an intermittent civil war, which lasted until Charles' second capture in 1648. In January 1649, the Rump Parliament - nicknamed this because the Army had purged the existing Parliament of all members sympathetic to the king - put Charles I on trial for treason, found him guilty and executed him at Whitehall Palace.
 - Following Charles' execution, the Rump Parliament dissolved the monarchy and the House of Lords and declared itself a republic in May 1649. A nearly decade-long rebellion in Ireland was suppressed by the army under Oliver Cromwell, and Puritan reforms began to be enacted, such as in May 1650 when an act passed making adultery an offense punishable by death.
 - The rule of the Rump Parliament, however, proved ineffective, and in 1653, Oliver Cromwell forcibly dissolved the Rump Parliament, assuming the lifetime position of Lord Protector and becoming King of England in all but name. Life in England under Cromwell was marked by a fervent and puritanical brand of Protestantism, where recreational activities were forbidden on Sundays and even the celebration of holidays were suppressed or banned altogether.
 - After Cromwell's death in September 1658, his son, Richard Cromwell, became Lord Protector, though his lack of support from the army or the people doomed any chance he had of succeeding his father. After only seven months as Lord Protector, Richard Cromwell was forcibly removed from office and the Rump Parliament was reinstalled. The chaos which ensued as the Rump decided what actions to take moving forward in order to govern England were exacerbated as a Royalist uprising propagated in Cheshire, calling for the return of Charles II to the English throne.
 - At this point, the general of the English forces in Scotland, George Monck, marched the English army to London. Upon his arrival in February 1660, Monck reintroduced all of the members of Parliament purged in 1648, and the reconstituted Parliament declared itself dissolved and simultaneously called for new elections.
 - The new Parliament - nicknamed the Convention Parliament by historians - returned with a majority of its members favoring a reinstitution of the monarchy, and in April 1660, the Convention Parliament passed a resolution in favor of a government by king. Sensing the political climate in England was ripe for his return, Charles II issued the Declaration of Breda from exile in the Dutch Republic in May 1648, declaring that all Englishmen who proclaimed their loyalty to Charles II as king would be pardoned of any crimes against the monarchy committed during the Interregnum. Similarly, land acquisitions during the same period would be honored, and English subjects would enjoy an unprecedented degree of religious toleration. 
 - Despite the conditions Charles made in the Declaration of Breda, several trials of those instrumental in the killing of the king in 1649 were still held, and nine of the regicides were executed. The English Restoration - the outcome of nearly two decades of civil war and democratic experimentation - is perhaps more remarkable for what it left unaccomplished rather than for what it achieved.
 - Many of the same issues that originally led to conflict in 1642 still existed: the monarchy still desperately required tax money to govern the country and wage war, feudal dues and tenures that pre-war Parliaments had decried as outdated and abused remained in place and the religious settlement of England remained nebulous, with a people who preferred something resembling Calvinism and a monarch who was a staunch Anglican.

#### 1.6. The Creation of Great Britain
 - Arguably the largest fear in English society in the 17th century was Catholicism and Catholics. Englishmen were constantly worried that an attack from a foreign Catholic power, such as France or Spain, or insurrection at home would foist Catholicism upon the English, endangering their immortal souls. Indeed, one of the driving forces behind the English Civil War of the 1640s was English fears that Charles I's Arminian policies were too closely related to Catholic practices.
 - Considering this, it should come as little surprise that the line of succession in the 1680s greatly alarmed Englishmen. King Charles II and his wife, Catherine of Braganza, produced no heirs. According to English law, the throne, upon Charles' death in 1685, passed to his brother James II. Though Charles was an Anglican, his brother James had been raised Catholic in exile in France during the Civil War and Interregnum and secretly converted to Catholicism in the late 1660s. James' Catholicism was widely rumored in England and his relations with his rabidly anti-Catholic subjects were made worse when he attempted to secure wider toleration for Catholicism in England after his 1685 accession. 
 - Enter William of Orange, the stadholder of the Dutch Republic. William was married to James' daughter, Mary, who, outside of James II and his son, had the most legitimate claim to the English throne. Most importantly, both William and Mary were staunch Protestants with a record of fighting the spread of Catholicism and the Counter-Reformation. After a series of secret conversations and letters between the parliamentarians and William, in which they assured William of the whole of England's support, William declared he was invading England to protect the rights of Protestants and investigate the legitimacy of James II's son. James' surprising response was to flee to the continent. As a result, though William's original intention was not to take the English throne for himself, James had all but abdicated by December 1688 when William's force arrived in London.
 - As a result, William was appointed as provisional ruler, and a Parliament was immediately called in January 1689. In February, Parliament voted to exclude James and all his heirs from the English throne as he had left the seat of the throne and abdicated, de facto. Subsequently, William and Mary were made king and queen of England for life, with the succession being secured as English by placing Mary's sister, Anne, rather than any of William and Mary's presumably Dutch future children, as the direct heir to the throne.
 - The exclusion of James II and offering of the throne to William and Mary were not the only business the 1689 Parliament concluded. In addition, the chamber drew up a list of grievances as to the liberties and rights of English subjects which James had violated, hence justifying William's invasion. Most importantly, the bill further listed the rights which Englishmen and Parliament considered inalienable.
 - The bill was accepted by William and Mary and in December 1689 the rights listed in the bill were codified into law by an act of Parliament. Included in the thirteen clauses listed in the 1689 Bill of Rights were provisions which made it illegal for the king to tax without parliamentary consent, maintain a standing army in peacetime, or interfere with parliamentary debate or the elections of its members. In turn, Englishmen's freedom of speech was preserved, along with Protestants' ability to maintain arms. In effect, many of the same things that American revolutionaries would demand a little over a century later.
 - Not long after William's reign ended with his death in 1702, Parliament unified Scotland and England into the Kingdom of Great Britain through the 1707 Act of Union - a political union which lasts to this day(though Scotland would probably be better off leaving Great Britain and rejoining the EU). Additionally, the English Parliament abolished itself and the Scottish Parliament, supplanting both with the Parliament of Great Britain, to be seated in London. The same Act of Union further secured a smooth transition of the throne from Queen Anne, who had no heirs, to the Electress Sophia of Hanover. Her son, George I, took the English throne in 1714, ending the tumultuous Stuart Dynasty of England and beginning the Hanoverian Dynasty, which would last until Queen Victoria's death in 1901.

#### 1.7: Louis XIV
 - While almost every country can debate their greatest leader ever, France's greatest leader(Napoleon was both Corsican and ended up losing) was almost certainly Louis XIV, who reigned for *over 70 years* in the crucial period of the late 17th and early 18th centuries.
 - Louis was born to his father, Louis XIII of France, and his mother, Anne of Austria, in September 1638 in Saint-Germain-en-Laye, France. Just a few years later, Louis XIII fell ill and died, and his young son became Louis XIV, King of France, at only four-and-a-half years old. Obviously, Louis could not rule at four, and in his stead, his mother, Anne of Austria, was considered ruler and the King's regent. Despite her official title, practical power in the French government was wielded by Louis XIII's chief advisor, Cardinal Jules Mazarin. Mazarin was also Louis XIV's godfather and in charge of grooming Louis XIV to rule once he was of age, and Mazarin saw to it that the young king received a firm grounding in the arts of history, politics, and statecraft.
 - In addition to aiding Louis' development, Mazarin was forced to contend with a series of rebellions in the late 1640s and early 1650s that became known as the Fronde. Mazarin was intent on centralizing political authority in France in the monarchy, and this largely came at the expense of the provincial parlements and local nobles. The Fronde was largely a reaction to this usurpation of provincial authority. It was a highly confusing episode in French history, with numerous minor and major rebellions breaking out throughout Paris and the countryside, and Mazarin and the French forces often playing a reactionary role.
 - French nobles, like the Princes of Condé and Conti, attempted to subvert Mazarin in Paris through subterfuge and intrigue, only to later raise rebellions in the countryside. The Prince of Condé was actually successful in taking Paris and exiling Mazarin in the summer of 1652, though the Fronde was eventually put down when Henri, Viscount of Turenne, chased the Prince of Condé's troops from Paris to the Spanish Netherlands. Mazarin was then recalled from exile.
 - The Fronde is an important episode in the history of France and the young reign of Louis XIV. Many historians believe it played an important role in Louis' belief in an absolute, divine-right monarchy and a highly centralized bureaucracy.
 - Though Louis was now of age, Mazarin still controlled the government for Louis until Mazarin's death in 1661. Upon taking control of the government, Louis began an ambitious series of fiscal and administrative reforms. With France nearly broke after financing several wars at home and abroad, Louis made his trusted advisor, Jean-Baptiste Colbert, the Minister of Finances.
 - Louis' military and administrative reforms further sapped the nobility of the authority it had traditionally held. Under Louis, the command and appointment system received a makeover. Nobles in France traditionally retained direct control of their own forces - regardless of directives from the central command in Paris - with the senior command in a pan-French effort being given to the oldest or most senior noble. Under Louis, the system of military appointments became more meritocratic, based on the ability of each commander, and the command structure was more readily centralized in the monarchy. That increase in meritocracy was far more relative than absolute, as the nobility still held a disproportionate number of senior military positions.
 - Louis sought to further reform France's diverse and myriad legal codes. Consistent with the traditional power of the local nobility, different regions in France had developed their own laws and customs. Throughout the 1660s and 1670s, Louis standardized French jurisprudence, most notably through the grand ordinances, which implemented a single, unified legal code throughout all of France. These were a series of decrees over several years that addressed several legal topics, including a 1667 ordinance on civil proceedings, a 1670 ordinance on criminal proceedings, and a 1673 ordinance on trade.
 - As France was stabilized and enriched through Louis' and Colbert's economic and administrative reforms, and political power was increasingly centralized in the monarchy, Louis became the focus of a growing and opulent French court life. To encapsulate French successes and riches, Louis expanded his father's hunting cabin at Versailles into the Palace of Versailles, where Louis permanently relocated the French court in 1682. Located about ten miles outside of Paris, this sprawling and expansive palace that still stands today featured 250 acres of well-manicured lawns and over 1,400 working fountains. Its 2,300 rooms covered a staggering 720,000 square feet!
 - It was important for royal "prestige" to have a court life, and Louis' court was the most opulent in Europe. The French court was the center of French politics, and the French nobility was expected to spend much of their time at Versailles. Louis' court was also the center of French culture, as Louis was a patron of the arts and sciences. Louis' court featured the greatest artists and thinkers of the day, including the playwright Molière, the composer Jean-Baptiste Lully, and the philosopher René Descartes.

#### 1.8. French Expansion under Louis XIV
 - The first of these opportunities for Louis XIV and France came after the death of Philip IV of Spain in 1665. Although European custom dictated that the Spanish throne and all its holdings passed to Charles II of Spain, Philip's first son of his second marriage, Louis claimed the Spanish Netherlands based on a local Flemish custom.
 - In the Spanish Netherlands, in certain instances, daughters of a first marriage were preferred over sons of a later marriage when it came to inheritance. By quoting the custom and further stating that Spain had never sufficiently paid the dowry for Louis' wife, Marie-Thérèse (Philip IV's daughter from his first marriage), Louis managed to gain quasi-legal footing for his invasion of the Spanish Netherlands.
 - With justification in hand, Louis sent the French army into the Spanish Netherlands in May 1667. The French army under the Marshal de Turenne easily secured most of the principal fortresses and towns in Flanders and Hainault. In early 1668, a separate French force under the Prince de Condé overran the Franche-Comté, also ruled by Spain.
 - Fearful of French aggression, the Dutch, English, and Swedish created the Triple Alliance and demanded peace and a stop to French aggression. The Alliance and Louis concluded the Treaty of Aix-la-Chappelle in May 1668. The terms forced France to return the Franche-Comté to Spain, but allowed France to keep the territory in Flanders it had claimed in 1667.
 - Louis was not content solely with the expansion of new territory. In 1672, Louis, who had secretly allied France with England in 1670, invaded the Dutch Republic in an attempt to cripple France's biggest economic competitor. Fighting was fierce, and the Dutch only stopped the initial French advance by opening up dikes, flooding the land, and spoiling it with salt water in the process.
 - With the French advance checked, the Dutch sued for peace. Louis was not content with his initial success, and his refusal to negotiate sparked a revolution in the Dutch Republic by William of Orange, who began pushing back the French advance. Louis' prospects for victory were further damaged when England bowed out of the war in 1674 and the Holy Roman Empire, Denmark, and Spain joined the Dutch cause. Despite being outnumbered and outmanned, the French forces continued to match their defeats with victories elsewhere, taking Freiburg in 1677. The two sides concluded peace with the 1678 Treaty of Nijmegen. France was forced to return several of the territories it had gained in the Spanish Netherlands in 1668, but in return it kept the Dutch city of Maastricht, and in a separate treaty received the Franche-Comté from Spain.
 - Louis continued to try and grab territories wherever he could, such as Strasbourg and parts of Lorraine(Alsace and Lorraine were fought over between the French and Germans for practically forever).
 - The League and the other European powers reacted, as Austria, the Dutch Republic, and England formed the Grand Alliance in 1689 to oppose French aggression. Fierce fighting on land and sea continued for nine years until financial and military exhaustion forced both sides to the negotiating table. The 1697 Treaty of Ryswick, which concluded the fighting, allowed Louis to keep Strasbourg, but forced him to return the rest of the territory he had dubiously claimed in the 1680s.
 - Louis was not yet done claiming territory for himself and the Bourbon Dynasty. The will of Charles II of Spain, who died heirless in 1700, left all Spanish holdings to Louis' grandson, Philip. Other European powers, specifically Austria, objected to the succession as they felt it would tilt the balance of power in Europe in France's favor. Louis, who knew France was financially and militarily exhausted by the War of the Grand Alliance, initially attempted to negotiate an end to the conflict. An initial agreement was signed between Louis XIV and Holy Roman Emperor Leopold I. This would split Spanish territory between the two countries, but the death of Leopold's son and likely heir to the Spanish throne, Joseph Ferdinand, nullified the treaty.
 - When Charles' will named Louis' grandson, Philip V, king of Spain, Louis made his play to try to gain all Spanish territory. An alliance composed of England, the Dutch Republic, Austria, and the Holy Roman Empire formed to oppose Louis XIV's France and her allies in Bavaria and Spain. The war was largely fought in Italy, Bavaria, and the Netherlands.
 - When peace was finally concluded through three separate treaties in 1713 and 1714, France was forced to retreat within its pre-war boundaries and give most of the Spanish Netherlands to Austria. France additionally ceded several North American territories to England. Though Philip V was allowed to remain on the Spanish throne, he was removed from the French line of succession, ending any future prospect of a joint Franco-Spanish monarchy.


#### 1.9. The War of Spanish Succession
 - The death of an heirless monarch could cause turmoil and war if the succession was not guaranteed properly. Just such a situation occurred in Spain in the first years of the eighteenth century, erupting into a conflict that engulfed the entirety of Western Europe and became known as the War of the Spanish Succession.
 - Charles II ruled over Spain from 1665 to 1700. The king, who took the throne at the age of four, was a sick and likely mentally handicapped child, and his condition only worsened in adulthood. Nicknamed El Hechizado in Spain (or, 'the Bewitched'), it was clear to the Spanish nobles and the other powers of Western Europe that Charles would die without an heir. Several relatives in France, Austria and the Holy Roman Empire held distant but similarly legitimate claims to Charles II's inheritance, and two treaties and other agreements were made attempting to avoid the warfare that having multiple claimants to the throne might cause. Unfortunately, these treaties ultimately failed, as all parties never agreed to the same terms or were present at the same discussions.
 - In France, Louis XIV, the self-named 'Sun King,' claimed the Spanish throne for the Bourbon dynasty in the name of his grandson, Philip, as Louis XIV himself was a cousin to Charles II. Further legitimating France's claim to the throne was the will of Charles II, which left all of the Spanish Empire to Philip.
 - Despite this being the legal and rightful claim to the Spanish throne, other nations declared that it would overbalance the power of France and the Bourbon dynasty in Europe. 
 - Though Spain's power and international influence had been steadily declining over the past half century, Spain still held considerable territory in the Americas, Italy, the Low Countries and the South Pacific. Indeed, Great Britain attempted to break up the Spanish Empire amongst the various claimants in both the Treaty of The Hague and the Treaty of London, brokered in 1698 and 1700 respectively, to avoid this very real possibility.
 - The Holy Roman Emperor/Kind of Hungary & Bohemmia/Archduke of Austria Leopold I was actually a first cousin of Charles II and claimed that his relation to Charles II made him the rightful heir to the Spanish throne.
 - Though Great Britain initially wanted to maintain peace on the continent, in the event of war, the British supported Austria in order to check French power. The Dutch Republic and most of the Germanic principalities of the Holy Roman Empire similarly supported Austrian claims, while the Spanish nobles, who resented British attempts to break up the empire and likely engineered Charles II's will, favored the claims of Louis XIV's grandson.
 - Though the British were initially hesitant to join the war, they eventually declared war on France, concluded an alliance with Austria in 1702 and immediately sent troops under the Duke of Marlborough to join the Dutch forces and begin campaigning in the more southerly Spanish Netherlands. After some initial successes, British attention was drawn away by the entrance of Bavaria into the war.
 - Bavarian entry into the war caused Savoy and Marlborough, the latter of whom was by now General of all English, Dutch, and imperial forces, to stop their campaigns in Italy and the Spanish Netherlands and try to knock Bavaria out of the war before it could have a major impact. The two sides met at the Battle of Blenheim in 1704, where Marlborough and his Dutch and Austrian allies defeated the French and Bavarian forces. The victory at Blenheim was the first major defeat of French forces in over 50 years and was a turning point in the war. It knocked Bavaria out of the war and allowed for near unopposed campaigning in the Spanish Netherlands and Italy.
 - With France on the back foot, Savoy and Marlborough consolidated their gains in Italy and the Spanish Netherlands while simultaneously trying to make headway into France proper. Though both failed on their own, the two reunited their armies in 1708 and crushed the French forces at Oudenarde in July. Historians' best estimates claim that for every man the Austrian and British forces lost at Oudenarde, the French lost five.
 - With France on the back foot, Savoy and Marlborough consolidated their gains in Italy and the Spanish Netherlands while simultaneously trying to make headway into France proper. Though both failed on their own, the two reunited their armies in 1708 and crushed the French forces at Oudenarde in July. Historians' best estimates claim that for every man the Austrian and British forces lost at Oudenarde, the French lost five.
 - Without the help of its allies, Austria had little chance of unconditionally defeating the French on their own and also eventually sought peace. France signed three separate treaties with its enemies: The 1713 Treaty of Utrecht with Britain, the Dutch Republic, Portugal and several German states, the 1714 Treaty of Rastatt with Austria and the 1714 Treaty of Baden with the Holy Roman Empire.
 - The various treaties recognized Louis' grandson Philip as King Philip V of Spain, but removed him from the French line of succession. Additionally, the Spanish Netherlands and Spain's Italian holdings were ceded to Austria and Gibraltar and Minorca to Great Britain. France was also forced to cede several colonial possessions in North America to the British.
 - There would never, ever be a war between the French and Germans over who got to rule Spain again. Ever. Never. Except this guy named Bismarck, but we will get to him later.