### Andrew Garber
### Februray 7 2024
### CLEP Western Civilization II
### Chapter 2: Power Shifts in Eastern Europe

#### 2.1. The Old Empires in the 17th Century
 - The fluidity of the 17th century proved an opportune launching pad for some empires and a death knell for others. In that transitional century, older powers, like Poland and the Ottoman Empire, began to lose power and influence, while other newer states, like Austria and Brandenburg-Prussia, emerged as international players.
 - The Holy Roman Empire in the 17th century is a hard state to define. Technically speaking, the Emperor controlled vast territory in Central Europe, which contained most of modern-day Germany, Austria, the Czech Republic, and even as far south as Northern Italy. In practice, however, the Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire - who throughout the entire 17th century came from the Hapsburg family who ruled Austria - had only nominal control over many of these territories.
 - In the 1620s, Emperor Ferdinand II attempted to rectify this reality by exerting greater control over religious institutions and eliminating the partial political sovereignty of many of the states that made up the Holy Roman Empire during the Thirty Years' War. Unfortunately, this effort failed, and when the war ended in 1648 with the Peace of Westphalia, imperial power was left even weaker than prior to the war.
 - The Holy Roman Empire perhaps outpaces the Byzantine Empire, its competitor for the title of "Roman Empire successor" in terms of sheer bureaucratic complexity. The Holy Roman Empire was a patchwork of hundreds of states, each with its own ruler, laws, and customs. There were internal customs barriers between all of them, and the Emperor had to be elected by a council of princes, who were often more interested in their own power than in the well-being of the Empire as a whole. This was not a state in which mass industry and modern governance could thrive, and it was being rapidly subsumed by its interior states and by the Hapsburgs' other territories. 
 - As the power of the imperial throne waned, the most powerful of these states became important international players. One of these was the Hapsburg family, traditionally based in modern-day Austria. Throughout the 17th century, The Hapsburgs held the added power of holding the throne of the Holy Roman Emperor, symbolically adding to their regional clout, even if the position's tangible power was declining. Although the Hapsburgs had failed in their attempts to exert their influence over the entirety of the German lands, at home, in Austria, they had consolidated most state power in the monarchy and expanded their territory into Silesia, Bohemia, Moravia, and even into portions of Hungary (termed Royal Hungary).
 - Silesia is important here, as it was a region that was not only rich in natural resources, but also a key strategic location. It was a major producer of iron and coal, and would soon become a battleground between the Hapsburgs and their seemingly weaker rivals/neighbors/sometimes allies, the Brandenburg-Prussians, otherwise known as the Hohenzollerns. The Hohenzollerns were not a particularly powerful family until the late 16th century, when they were granted the title of "Elector" by the Holy Roman Emperor. This title allowed them to vote for the Emperor, and it also gave them a degree of autonomy from the Emperor's control. This autonomy allowed the Hohenzollerns to consolidate their power in the region of Brandenburg, and to expand their territory into Ducal Prussia, a region that was not part of the Holy Roman Empire. This allowed a meteoric rise in power and influence, and pretty soon were a major player in the region due to a highly centralized government and a strong military(not great for the people, but the Prussian state wasn't concerned with that - all were cogs in the machine. As Voltaire said, "Where some states have an army, the Prussian army has a state").
 - One of the states the expanding Prussian Empire would butt up against in the following century was the expansive Polish-Lithuanian commonwealth. Its borders stretched as far north as modern-day Estonia and south into modern-day Ukraine, nearly to the Black Sea; the largest country by land area in Europe at 1600. This expansive commonwealth was unique in the period; when many monarchs in Europe were centralizing power at the expense of regional magnates, Poland exhibited a robust legislative body composed of the members of the nobility, the Sejm, whose legal proceedings had a huge impact on the realm. Furthermore, the Sejm was largely independent of the monarch, and anything the Polish King wanted to accomplish in the way of taxation, foreign policy - even the king's own marriage - required the Sejm's consent. This system made it incredibly conservative by nature and unwilling(or unable) to adapt to the changing times.
 - The final empire in decline here was the Ottoman Empire, which in the 17th century was an enormous and loosely-controlled state, stretching outward from its traditional base in Constantinople (modern Istanbul) as far south as Egypt and west into Persia, and northward into Europe through the Balkans until it butted up against Austrian, Polish, and Russian possessions in Eastern Europe. The state was loosely ruled from Istanbul, with local leaders in the Balkans being allowed to rule their possessions unencumbered from central authority, so long as they pledged fealty to the Ottoman Empire and promised military aid in any wars.
 - This poor central leadership was made starkly apparent in the early 17th century when the Ottoman Empire had a series of rulers who were either sickly, young, mad, or otherwise incompetent. Ottoman expansion into Europe was checked at this point, losing an important war against the Poles in the 1620s, and the Ottoman navy was thoroughly routed by the Venetians in 1656.