### Andrew Garber
### February 21 2024
### Chapter 3: Empire and Expansion in the 18th Century

#### 3.1. World Economies in the 1700s
 - The 18th century was a time of great economic change. The beginnings of the industrial revolution in England, the rise of the global British Empire, and ever increasing agricultural productivity all contributed to a period of great economic growth.
 - The Watt steam engine was a key invention that helped to drive the start of the industrial revolution, invented in 1769 by James Watt(though he is not the sole credit here), it drove an increase in power to human labor ratio that allowed for far larger, more advanced machine tools to be built.
 - Another big addition to the growth of the European economy was the introduction of the potato to Europe. This sounds ridiculous, but the potato was a hardy, easy to grow crop with fairly high calorie to acreage ratios, combined with better fertilizer usage and better drainage technology, a smaller percentage of the population could work in agriculture, freeing up labor for other industries. Specialization at is finest.
 - These had significant political implications, as the trade center of Europe moved from the Mediterranean in Genoa/Venice to the Atlantic in Amsterdam and London. This shift in trade centers also shifted the balance of power in Europe, as the Atlantic powers were able to exert more influence over the rest of Europe.

#### 3.2. Society & Culture in the 18th Century
 - The makeup of society was changing in the 18th century, but there was still opposition from the rigidly hierarchical established powers of the day. Indeed, despite some changes, at 1800, the nobility and traditional landed aristocracy still held the political power in most of Western Europe. In addition to largely being the sole holders of political power, the nobility of the 18th century held the vast majority of the region's wealth. Most of this wealth (and indeed, most of its attendant prestige) derived from the ownership of land.
 - European nobility, and aristocracy in general, did not have to do any work for their wealth. They either owned slaves/serfs, or they owned land that was rented out to tenant farmers. Either way, they could spend lives of leisure while the lower classes wasted their human potential working away in the fields. This was a system that was not only unjust, but also massively inefficient. The reason that the British economy was able to grow so much faster than the rest of Europe was that it was the first to break away from an agricultural economy. This wasn't something done by the nobility, but instead by the middle class, who were able to use their wealth to invest in new technologies and industries. In doing so, they uplifted the lower classes, who were able to work in these new industries and earn a better living than they ever could have as tenant farmers. Despite factory work being dangerous and low paying, it was *dramatically* better than subsistence farming.
 - Wealth transfer reached unprecedented levels in the 18th century as true social mobility was finally possible. The largest societal hold-out from the pre-industrial era was the status of women, who were still largely confined to the home and child-rearing. This was not a universal truth, especially in America once factories started popping up there, but on the whole women still had very limited opportunities for advancement. While opportunities were growing dramatically across the board, the 18th century was still a time of great inequality of opportunity(*NOT OUTCOME*, because equality of outcome is not a thing that can exist in a free society).
 -  Considering this makeup of 18th-century society, it should come as little surprise that only the aristocracy and some of the wealthier merchants had the time and resources to participate in popular culture. Indeed, a key indicator of prestige and wealth in aristocratic circles was the patronage of intellectuals, musicians, and artists. In England, for example, it was absolutely necessary for a noble family to have an Oxford academic on staff to tutor their children and bring prestige to the family through his writing and research.
 - Additionally, the nobility were expected to ornament themselves and their personal property with lavish displays of wealth, often by building large country homes and filling them with expensive artwork, china, and other goods from abroad. This practice - something historians often term conspicuous consumption - took advantage of the century's freer markets and colonialism to acquire increasingly exotic items from the far reaches of the globe.

