### Andrew Garber
### March 6 2024
### CLEP Western Civilization II
### Chapter 4: Scientific Revolution and Enlightenment


#### 4.1. The Scientific Revolution
 - The Scientific Revolution is a complicated and disjointed movement upon whose periods and actors historians do not always agree. Some scientists of the period built on the works of those who came before them. Others made their own contribution strictly from their own observations and at times contradicted the evidence and conclusions of their contemporaries. With that caveat made, many historians claim that it began with Copernicus and ended with Isaac Newton 150 years later. 
 - Those seem to be arbitrary, but for the purposes of defining them that is fine - arbitrary is fine for nebulously defined periods.
 - Copernicus was the first(ish) person to propose a heliocentric model of the universe(our solar system). He published a book called *On the Revolutions of the Heavenly Spheres* in 1543. The Catholic Church was not a big fan of this, as it contradicted their view of the Bible, and for good reason. The Bible says that the sun "rises" and "sets," which is an observation you can make from the perspective of the Earth, but not the sun. This was a big deal at the time, and Copernicus was afraid to publish his work until he was on his deathbed(or near it).
 - Next up is Tycho Brahe, who was a Danish astronomer(and generally hooligan) who did a lot of work improving on astronomical instruments and making accurate observations of the stars. He believed that the Earth was the center of the universe due to the stars being stationary - we know that they aren't stationary, but are so far away that they appear to be.
 - Johannes Kepler, yes the guy who the laws and the telescope are named after, was Brahe's assistant though definitely more talented than his boss. He was a mathematician and astronomer who used Brahe's advanced observational techniques and equipment to improve upon the Copernican model. He discovered that the planets' orbits were not circular, but slightly(or greatly, depending on the planet) elliptical. Kepler was further able to derive a mathematical equation (known today as 'Kepler's Third Law') that could be used to determine orbital periods and speed.
 - Next is one of the greatest thinkers in human history, Galileo Galilei(definitely top 20 all-time, in my book). He was an Italian physicist, mathematician, astronomer, and philosopher--as well as businessman who made a ton of money from his inventions--who dramatically improved the telescope, and used it to observe the solar system. He discovered phases on Venus, moons orbiting Jupiter, and even proved that Venus revolved around the Sun and not the Earth. This was fairly monumental, as it was sensory evidence--not just mathematical--that contradicted the Church's teachings. He published *Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems* in 1632, which portrayed those defending the geocentric model as simpletons, the character *literally* named *Simplicio*(which is some excellent trolling). The Catholic Church was not amused and put him on trial for heresy. He was found guilty of a *suspicion* of Heresy, and sentenced to house arrest for the rest of his life. He died in 1642.
 - Next, we get to the actual inventor of the Scientific Method, Sir Francis Bacon. He was an English philosopher and statesman who believed that the goal of the sciences was to improve the human condition. He thought that the way to achieve that was by collecting data and making observations, and then using inductive reasoning to come up with general principles. He was also a strong advocate for the separation of science and religion, which was not too common at the time. Good on him.
 - Bacon published several works in the early seventeenth century that rejected Ptolemaic methodology in favor of empiricism. Bacon claimed that all knowledge came first from observation, and he laid out a rigorous investigative method, similar to ancient Greek schools like the Stoics--who were not totally empricist, but believed that all knowledge *came* from sense experience and had to be interpreted rationally. 
 - Another mathematician turned philosopher was the Frenchman, René Descartes. Active in the mid-seventeenth century, Descartes formulated a new worldview that still drives many of the smartest physicists today: that the world is made up of basic units governed by basic, natural laws. Descartes' theories, which have become known as Cartesianism, attempted to partially reconcile the heliocentric universe with the existence of a Christian God by separating the deity from the universe he created. The Cartesian God had created a mechanically perfect universe, one which did not need his direct intervention - ideas which weren't exactly popular with the Church but would morph into Deism(which influenced many American revolutionaries, including Thomas Jefferson and Benjamin Franklin).
 - The thinker whose work many historians consider to be the culmination of the 150 years of scientific and philosophical innovation is Isaac Newton. Newton was an accomplished mathematician and later alchemist who puzzled constantly over the natural world and the laws which governed it. Newton dabbled in optics, discovering that white light was composed of all the different colors of the rainbow. However his greatest triump would come with the publication of the *Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy* in 1687, which contained his three laws of motions and the law of universal gravitation. It was, to put it simply, groundbreaking and would change the way that people viewed the world. His advances in physics inspired a general societal shift towards scientific reasoning and rationality.

#### 4.2. Breakthroughs in Medicine and Chemistry
 - Medicine before the scientific revolution was largely based on the work and teachings of Galen, who would be the personal doctor of the Roman Emperor Marcus Aurelius and a few others. 
 - Many of Galen's techniques were based on observation and experimentation, and he made many dissections on humans and animals. Although this methodology was largely lost in the West, over the next millennium, his theories were widely accepted as fact throughout Western Europe. Most prevalent and important of these theories was that Galen believed sickness was caused by imbalances in the four humors and temperaments of the body. Being too cold, too hot, too wet, or too dry could throw these humors out of balance and cause illness in someone.
 - These ideas were largely unchallenged until the Scientific Revolution, and included terrible techniques like bloodletting, which was based on the idea that the humors were carried in the blood and could be removed to restore balance. This was dumb for a miriad of reasons, but mostly because it actually made the body weaker and more susceptible to disease.
 - Most people in the Middle Ages still believed in the Aristotelian model of the world, which stated that all substances in the world were composed of combinations of four basic elements: fire, air, water, and earth. It is hard to overstate the influence of Aristotle in Western Europe before the Scientific Revolution, he was simply known as *The Philosopher* - not *a* philosopher, *The* philosopher. 
 - Arguably, the first man who began this change in Western Europe was the Swiss-born chemist Paracelsus. Active in the first half of the 16th century, Paracelsus favored experimentation as the key to understanding the world, and he rejected common practices like bloodletting and the theory that disease was caused by bodily imbalances.
 - Whereas Paracelsus provided a new, more accurate theoretical framework for medical theory, much of the observation and discoveries about the human body were made by his Flemish contemporary, Andreas Vesalius. Vesalius made countless dissections of the human body, making important discoveries which contradicted Galen's maxims; for instance, Vesalius correctly identified that the human heart had four chambers. Galen, who had likely based his conclusions on the dissections of dogs, claimed it only had two.
 - The Irish-born Robert Boyle also made contributions to medicine and chemistry. Despite Boyle being an avid alchemist, he was an accomplished empiricist who famously claimed he believed only the things which he had learned from experimentation. He is famous throughout modern chemistry and physics as the discoverer of Boyle's Law, which states that the volume of a gas varies inversely with pressure - a law still taught in every chemistry and physics class today.
 - The discoveries of these fledgling physicians and chemists and their emphasis on empiricism paved the way for further discoveries and deeper understanding of the human body and chemicals in the century to come. Indeed, the English physician William Harvey took many of these new principles to heart. After receiving training in Italy, Harvey returned to England to teach and practice and was even named court physician to King James I. In 1628, he released his On the Motion of the Heart in which he announced his discovery that blood was continuously pumped throughout the body by the heart and that the body contained a fixed amount of blood. This marked a landmark in medicine, and it was a further step away from the teachings of Galen and the Aristotelian model of the world.