### Andrew Garber
### March 11 2024
### CLEP Western Civilization II
### Chapter 5: The French Revolution

#### Causes of the French Revolution
 - In the 17th and early 18th centuries, France was at the height of its European power. The 'Sun King,' Louis XIV, had expanded French possessions eastward into Central Europe and huge swathes of North America, from Canada to Louisiana, were under French control. This empire and the wars, which acquiring such expansive territory required, however, came with an enormous bill. When Louis XIV died in 1715, he left the French state wracked with massive debt.
 - Successive rulers had to spend ever more money trying to hold on to possessions of, admittedly, dubious value. French North America, while huge, was sparsely populated, difficult to defend, and not particularly profitable.  Their subsequent participation in the successful American Revolution further drained money from the French state, while achieving little tangible results for France other than the humiliation of their chief Western European rival, Great Britain. Benjamin Franklin and the American Revolutionaries had been able to secure French support by promising to pay back the French state for its assistance, but the new American government was in no position to do so. The French state was left holding the bag, pretty much on a street corner in Amsterdam, begging for money.
 - The money to pay for the spendthrift practices of France's rulers, both at home and abroad, had to be paid for by someone, and much of this money came from taxes. In 18th-century France, the nobility and the church were both exempt from taxation, which meant that nearly all tax money came from the incomes of the poorest - and most populous - portion of French society. This was made worse by the crop failures and subsequent famines that struck France. 
 - In 1781, Jaques Necker--a Swiss financial wizard--published the widely extolled *Compte Rendu*, the first ever public accounting of the French state's finances. The *Compte Rendu* showed that the French State was running a massive *surplus*, which helped to gain support of Bankers(lending the state more money), but when the time for actual reforms to fix the massive REAL deficit came, everyone just pointed at the *Compte Rendu* and said "See? We're doing fine!" This was not the case, and the French state was in a very bad way.
 - What Necker's *Compte Rendu* did do, however, was hide the "Extraordinary Expenses" that the French state was incurring. 


#### National Assembly
 - After calling the Assembly of Notables in 1787 in a failed attempt to get the nobility to allow themselves to be taxed, the French government was forced to call the Estates-General, an assembly made up of the clergy, the nobility and a representative body of the people of France. The Estates-General had not been called since 1614, and its assemblage in May 1789 had the opposite effect of what the French government had hoped.
 - Though the Third Estate, which represented the people, had twice as many members as either the nobility or the clergy, its members were informed at the opening session that the Estates-General would be voting by Estate rather than by individual member, rendering the voice of the people meaningless if faced with opposition from both the clergy and the nobility.
 - The members of the Third Estate declared this situation unacceptable, and despite some initial attempts at coming to terms with the other two estates, on May 28 the Third Estate began meeting without the consultation of the other two, functioning on their own rules and independently determining the legitimacy of French government officials.
 - Enough of the first and second estates were sympathetic to the enlightenment ideas of the time that together the National Assembly was able to declare itself legitimate.
 - Notable here is the always--until he wasn't--influential Marquis de Lafayette, a true character of Enlightenment though, and uncommon for the liberal nobles, of action. 
 - Despite the statements of good faith to the king made by the National Assembly, King Louis XVI was outraged at the audacity of the Third Estate. On June 19, only two days after the National Assembly convened itself, Louis ordered the Estates to separate and the building in which the National Assembly met closed while he prepared an adequate response.
 - What Louis did not expect, is that the members of the National Assembly would simply find somewhere else to meet. The next morning, finding their entry barred, the members of the National Assembly met across the street in one of the king's indoor tennis courts. They then created and pledged the Tennis Court Oath to remain sitting until the National Assembly had written a French constitution.
 - Days later, on June 23, the king appeared before the Assembly. He ordered the Three Estates that had formed the Assembly to return to their respective chambers at once, and the king granted a constitution of sorts, though nothing near as progressive as what the Assembly had hoped for. Though some of the nobility which had joined the Assembly complied, all of the representatives of the people stood firm, as they had not written a constitution themselves as their oath from the previous week promised.  
 - After this show of defiance by the National Assembly, relations between the Assembly and the monarch broke down. In addition, the people of Paris took to the streets in support of the Assembly, creating a chaotic atmosphere in the capital. For example, Louis tried simultaneously to heed some the demands of the National Assembly while also undermining it: On July 27, he granted the National Assembly his approval as the governing body of the people of France while simultaneously surrounding the building the Assembly met in with French troops. Louis offered to move the assembly out of Paris, but because the mob was basically the Assembly's only protection, they refused.
 - For example, on July 14, 1789, the sans-culottes broke into a royal armory, seized as many weapons as they could and stormed the royal prison in Paris, the Bastille, releasing the prisoners. Many historians consider this moment to be the point at which Louis lost total control over the events in Paris. 
 - In the first years of the French Revolution, the National Assembly tried to enact several reforms to introduce Enlightenment-style political theory and policy, such as in August 1789 when they passed the Declaration of the Rights of Man. This document, made up of 17 clauses, mimicked in many ways the Bill of Rights of the U.S. Constitution written just two years prior and the 1689 Declaration of Right made in England.
 - Then came the Civil Constitution of Clergy that was a direct attack on the separate, governmental powers of the clergy within France. Additionally, they provided for the democratic election of all candidates to the National Assembly. Then, they implemented a constitution in September 1791 that called for the Assembly and France's first free elections.
 - In the midst of all this, Louis XVI feared for the safety of himself and his family as the National Assembly hastily dismantled all the vestiges of his prior regime. In the summer of 1791, Louis attempted to flee to Austria, where he was promised safe haven by the Austrian Emperor, who was brother to his wife, Marie Antoinette. The king and his family were subsequently caught at Varennes and marched back to Paris.
 - It now became clear to the revolutionaries at least that Louis, and specifically his *Austrian* wife Marie Antoinette were counter-revolutionaries just waiting for the right moment to strike. All the while however, popular discontent with the National Assembly was growing. The people of France were not seeing the changes they had hoped for, and the Assembly was not able to keep up with the demands of the people. To kind of ward off the growing discontent, the Assembly declared war on Austria in April 1792, hoping to rally the people around a common enemy. This was a mistake, as the French army was not prepared for war, and the people of France were not interested in fighting a war for the Assembly. This is all a very simplified version of the events, but the point is that the war wasn't going well for France.

#### The rise of Napoleon
 - In  the tumultuous and chaotic period of the French Revolution, many such men have been deemed large enough characters to warrant articles, books, and even whole history courses. None, however, were as large as the man to become Emperor of the French Empire, Napoleon Bonaparte.
 - We know little about Napoleon's early life. He was born on the island of Corsica in 1769, an island in the Mediterranean north of Sardinia, which had only been acquired by France from Genoa just a year earlier. The son of a poor, Corsican nobleman, Napoleon attended French military school in Paris and was considered a smart student who was also a bit of a loner.
 - At only 16, Napoleon entered the French forces as a second lieutenant, in command of an artillery detachment. During the tumult of the early years of the French Revolution, Napoleon quickly rose through the military ranks, and, through some additional help from his friends in the military, found himself as commander of the French republican forces at the Siege of Toulon in 1793. The city was held jointly by Royalist and British forces within the city, and Napoleon led the successful assault - being shot in the leg in the process - reclaiming the strategic port for France. For his successful raid and his heroism in battle, Napoleon was immediately promoted to the rank of brigadier general, and less than two years later, he was appointed Commander of the Army of the Interior in October of 1795.
 - The pace of this rise is staggering, it defies comparison to any modern military career, perhaps with the exception of Erwin Rommel who started World War II in command of Hitler's personal bodyguard, Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler(not a division at the time), and rose within 3 years to the rank of Field Marshal. Honestly, that is still not as fast or as high as Napoleon's rise.
 - Though his victory at the Siege of Toulon first made Napoleon famous, it was his saving of the new French government of 1795, the Directory, which solidified Napoleon's reputation. This was ironically just after he had been removed from command by the same government.  When a Parisian mob threatened to overthrow the fledgling Directory, Napoleon jumped to action after being implored by Paul Barras to protect the government. He fired a round of small arms artillery into the crowd, dispersing it, and winning for himself the gratitude of the Directory -- and the fear of the people of Paris.
 - This act reinvigorated Napoleon's military career, earning him the command of the French army in Italy. There, Napoleon led an underfunded, undersupplied, and underfed force to victory after victory against the Austrians. He continued his campaign westward to the point of threatening Austria itself, at which point the Austrians sued for peace in October of 1797.
 - Victorious, Napoleon did not stop there. Realizing Britain was France's largest enemy, Napoleon resolved to attack it. With an invasion of the island likely proving disastrous, Napoleon resolved to attack British interests elsewhere, invading Egypt and consolidating control of the territory. However, Lord Nelson's British fleet smashed Napoleon's French warships in the Battle of the Nile in 1798. With his eastward advance checked, Napoleon returned to France - leaving his army in Egypt - in the midst of yet more political turmoil in Paris. Most of his African army would die or be captured by the British, yet Napoleon's career kept trending upwards.
 - Once back in France, Napoleon took part in a plot by a few members of the Directory and others to overthrow the existing government. Afterward, Napoleon was named one of the three Consuls of the new ruling Consulate, and Napoleon himself was named First Consul.
 - First Consul was in effect a supreme commander, the leader, the fuhrer, il duce, the top dog, il conducatore, the big kahuna, of France in all but name.With the political disarray in France now somewhat sorted, Napoleon turned his attentions back to France's foreign enemies. The following year, despite initial setbacks, Napoleon defeated the Austrians in Italy, and was able to forge a temporary peace treaty with the British. Additionally, Napoleon sold the Louisiana Purchase to the United States of America, since he realized the hopelessness of trying to defend such a vast territory at such a distance.
 - With peace finally secured, at least for a moment, Napoleon enacted several popular reforms in France and attempted to heal some of the wounds of the Revolution by offering amnesty and free return to France to all French citizens who had fled abroad during the turmoil. Napoleon reintroduced Catholicism, though he maintained tolerance of all religions within France. He also enacted some major legal reforms, which is the basis for much of France's legal system today.
 - Napoleon's reforms and the stability he brought to the French government after a decade and a half of chaos caused him to be wildly popular in Paris and in France. In 1804, he was elected Emperor of the French via a popular referendum in a near unanimous vote, though historians still dispute whether these results were legitimate, since some estimate nearly half of the French population did not vote.

