### Andrew Garber
### March 25 2024
### CLEP Western Civilization II
### Chapter 8: The Age of Nationalism

#### 8.4. Dual Monarchy of Austria-Hungary
 - Following Prussia's unification of Germany, Austria-Hungary was forced to reorganize itself and form its own German state.
 - Exclusion from the now Prussia-controlled German Confederation left Austria in economic and political crisis. As a result, it turned to consolidate power in its territories held outside the reach of the soon-to-be-united Germany. Austria had controlled parts of Hungary since Austria's rise to regional prominence in the 17th century, and those parts had been a continual source of intermittent rebellion against the Austrian monarchy.
 - Instead of opting for a costly campaign that would have further reduced the already ailing Austrian treasury, the Austrian Emperor, Francis Joseph, chose to negotiate with the Magyar families that had traditionally ruled Hungarian lands. In 1867, the two parties signed the Ausgleich - literally, the 'Compromise' - which acknowledged the Austrian Emperor Francis Joseph as King of Hungary and granted him control of all of the territory in the Balkans and Eastern Europe under Hungarian control.
 - In return, the Austrian governemnt had to massively reform its political structure and grant Hungary huge autonomy. Franics Joseph couldn't amend the constitution without asking for the Austrian Diet's approval, and the Hungarian Diet was allowed to have a great degree of control over its own affairs. Indeed, the new empire of Austria-Hungary was only united dynastically, in matters of war and foreign policy.
 - Other concessions were made to appease the liberals in the Austrian Reichsrat who opposed the creation of the dual monarchy. Freedom of religion, access to primary education, and a modicum of other personal freedoms were granted, and the protection from persecution of Hungary's German-speaking minority was secured.
 - Perhaps the most important effect that the creation of the dual monarchy of Austria-Hungary had was the quelling of unrest in Austria's Hungarian possessions for at least a few decades. Indeed, Hungary had been a continual source of internal insurrection in Hapsburg lands since it first gained territory in Hungary in the late Medieval period. Furthermore, the creation of the monarchy brought even more territory under control of the Austrian crown; thereby giving the new empire greater military might and increased international influence.

#### 8.5. Tsar Alexander II
 - Alexander II enacted widespread and sweeping reforms, most notably ending serfdom, only to be assassinated by a group of nationalist terrorists. His assasination justified conservative hardliners, notably the Empress Alexandra in her determined resistance to political reforms for the population - which eventually lead to the rise of Kerensky, and then the Bolsheviks.
 - Alexander II became Tsar in 1855 after the death of his father, Nicholas I. At 36, Alexander had been groomed to rule, but no amount of study could adequately prepare him for the crisis Russia was in when he took the throne. In 1855, Russia was in the midst of the debilitating Crimean War against Great Britain, France, and the Ottoman Empire on southern Russian soil. Not only did Russia lose hundreds of thousands of citizens and soldiers in the effort, but they lost the war as well.
 - Alexander II became Tsar in 1855 after the death of his father, Nicholas I. At 36, Alexander had been groomed to rule, but no amount of study could adequately prepare him for the crisis Russia was in when he took the throne. In 1855, Russia was in the midst of the debilitating Crimean War against Great Britain, France, and the Ottoman Empire on southern Russian soil. Not only did Russia lose hundreds of thousands of citizens and soldiers in the effort, but they lost the war as well.
 - Tsar Alexander realized the importance of industrializing if Russia would again be able to consider itself a major player in the international arena. In order to create the labor pool necessary for advanced industrial production, Alexander resolved to end serfdom in Russia, becoming the last country in Europe to end the feudal practice whereby the peasantry, while not slaves, were permanently tied to their landowner and their owner's land. Alexander's proposed reforms angered the traditional Russian landowners, even though many provisions severely restricted the practices and movements of the 22 million newly freed serfs. In fact, many of the serfs themselves couldn't understand why they were being freed, as they had far more connection to the land--and the provisions of serfdom--than they did any national identity or desire to leave the communes they had lived in for generations. What they really desired was the redistribution of land, the great repartition that they had clambored for over the centuries.
 - This is not to say that ending Serfdom was a bad thing, it was a great thing, it was just the poor education of the serfs meant that they didn't understand the full implications of their freedom. While the logistics of ending serfdom in Russia certainly caused some strain, coupled with further reforms Alexander strengthened the Russian economy and modernized Russian society. Alexander built huge amounts of railroads across Russia to facilitate economic production, and Russian exports of crops and minerals skyrocketed. He introduced several key measures that allowed more freedom of the press and made public education more widely available to the Russian populace. Additionally, the boost to the Russian economy allowed Alexander to pay for military reforms, including equipping Russian troops with the latest firearms and other weaponry.
 - Tsar Alexander's relaxation of censorship laws allowed for the proliferation of political pamphlets and rhetoric throughout the Russian Empire, some of which spurred nationalist movements like those that were also occurring in Germany and Italy. For example, in 1863, a nationalist revolt took place in Russian-controlled Poland, which Alexander violently suppressed. Nationalists did not only interrupt Russian affairs, however - in the 1870s a revolt by Bulgarian nationalists against the Ottoman Empire gave Russia an opportunity to regain the influence in the Balkans it had lost due to the Crimean War. Russia supported the nationalists in the revolt and helped win Bulgaria its independence, though Russian influence was hindered by simultaneous English and Austro-Hungarian influence exerted in the region.
 - Alexander had few friends left in Russia, for both the conservatives didn't like his reforms and the liberals wanted even greater freedoms--especially along national lines and constitutional implementation. In 1881, a group of liberal nationalists, the  Narodnaya Volya, or "People's Will," assassinated Alexander II with a bomb. 

#### 8.6. North America: American Civil War & Dominion of Canada
 - Canada and the United States are two countries which share many more things than other neighboring countries. While there are major differences - French Canada and Los Angeles, for instance, share very little - both countries share similar pastimes, cuisine, and possess a shared, immigrant heritage. Despite how alike the two countries are today, in the 1860s, the two countries were going in opposite directions: one tearing itself apart in Civil War and the other coming together to form a new country.
 - While the American Civil War's terrible toll in the United States is well known, what is less widely discussed is the war's impact abroad, particularly in Europe. The American Civil War and the Union's success in maintaining a unified nation also scored a symbolic victory in Europe for the American republic.
 - In Europe, the 19th-century saw the absolute monarchies of the past slowly transform into constitutional monarchies where the king and parliament ruled in tandem. Many monarchists and political theorists felt that republics were doomed to failure, just as the French Revolution's attempted republic had collapsed in less than a decade. The American Civil War seemed to prove this point - without a strong central authority in a single person, even a constitutional monarchy would suffice, a nation would tear itself apart by its internal centrifugal forces.
 - The sides the European powers chose during the American Civil War changed the face of European geopolitics as well. Britain, who had naturally been unfriendly with the American government after the American Revolution and the War of 1812, supported the Confederacy in theory but wavered when it came to actively aiding the Southern war effort.
 - Despite British political interests, the British public would have heavily opposed British aid of a slavery-supported regime in any state, jeopardizing stability at home. Nonetheless, Britain still nearly declared war on the United States when a Union captain boarded a British naval vessel and seized two Confederate emissaries aboard.
 - In response, the British demanded an apology and threatened war, but serious conflict between the two nations never occurred. France, too, proved unfriendly to the Union as they had colonial ambitions in Mexico, which the U.S. heavily opposed.
 - Alexander II was a tacit supporter of the Union, as his liberal tendencies(towards slavery) were proven out by the Union's victory. In addition, they were both structural opponents of the British Empire, and the Union's victory would weaken the British Empire's influence in the Americas & due to Britian's tacit support of the Confederacy to prop up its textiles industry.
 - While the Civil War was ripping the United States apart, north of the border in British Canada, a new country was starting to come together. This development came about largely due to two factors.
    1. Canadians, previous British and French settlers as well as immigrants and American Indians who had been living in the area were continuously fearful of American expansion - though this would be very beneficial to both countries, and probably should have happened. Same with the US and Mexico, for that matter.
    2. While this perceived need for a strong, united counterweight to American aggression in North America played a large part in the creation of Canada, internal factors motivated Canadians as well. Indeed, the railroads from east to west were disjointed at best, and British-Canadian nationalists wanted more control over the internal affairs of the North American territories.
 - As a result, in March of 1867, the British Parliament passed the British North American Act, granting the remaining British territories in North America powers over roads, schools, defense, and infrastructure. The three British territories of Canada, New Brunswick, and Nova Scotia agreed and formed the Dominion of Canada on July 1st, 1867. Signing the bill was Canada's first Prime Minister, Sir John A. MacDonald. In the process, Canada East and Canada West split to form the provinces of Quebec and Ontario respectively.
 - Slowly, territories were incorporated into the Dominion of Canada--not a truly independent nation yet--including Rupert's Land from the Hudson Bay Company, and British Columbia in 1870. It took until 1949 for Newfoundland to join Canada, being owned by the British until then.