### Andrew Garber
### AP Environmental Science 
### Jan 10 2024

#### 12.1 Active and Passive Continental Margins
 - To understand active and passive continental margins, we must first understand the difference between continental crust and oceanic crust. Continental crust is the crust that makes up the continents, and the oceanoic crust is the crust that "supports" the ocean floor.
 - The continental crust is less dense than the material that makes up the underlying mantle, so it tends to float on top of the mantle and move around. Of course, even though we live on the continental crust, we do not feel this movement because it's very slow, in the range of about 1-10 centimeters during the course of a year.
 - The continental crust is also less dense than the oceanic crust, so the oceanic crust does not move as much. But, because the continental crust is moving, it can knock into the oceanic crust at a place called the continental margin. We can define the continental margin as the zone that separates the continental crust from the oceanic crust.
 - In effect, anywhere that you find a continent meeting an ocean, you will find a continental margin. Back to the two types, active and passive. An active continental margin has plate tectonic activity, and a passive continental margin does not. 
 - In effect, the West vs East coasts of the United States exemplify the difference between active and passive continental margins. There are no earthquakes or volcanoes on the East coast, but there are on the West coast. 

#### 12.2 Ocean Basin
 - About 70% of the planet's surface is made up of ocean basins, which are the regions that are below sea level. These areas hold the majority of the planet's water.
 - Ocean basins can be either active, with a lot of new structures being created and shaped, or they can be inactive, where their surface is slow to change and does little more than collect sediment. The Gulf of Mexico is an example of an inactive ocean basin where the main change that happens is the slow depositing of sand and sediment(and oil, for that matter).
 - Active ocean basins undergo change mainly due to plate tectonics, which is the movement of the Earth's crust.
 - Plates can spread apart by moving away from each other. This creates gaps where hot molten rock, called magma, from the earth's mantle can rise up. When the magma seeps through the gaps, it solidifies as it cools, creating a new layer of ocean crust. This creates structures, such as oceanic ridges, which are continuous mountain chains located under the surface of the sea.
 - An abyssal hill is another raised feature found within ocean basins. It is defined as a small elevated landform that rises from the great depths of the ocean. It might help you to recall this term by remembering that an 'abyss' is something that is very deep. So an abyssal hill is a hill found on the deep ocean floor.
 - A seamount is a large submerged volcanic mountain rising from the ocean floor. Seamounts can be very large, reaching heights of up to 10,000 feet, yet they remain submerged under the surface of the water.
 - A guyot is similar to a seamount, but it is a submerged volcanic mountain with a flat top. Guyots receive their flat top after years of erosion caused by waves and other erosive processes.
 -We have looked at some ocean basin features that rise up from the ocean floor, but we also see depressions in the ocean floor, such as oceanic trenches. These trenches extend down below the normal level of the ocean floor and are the deepest parts of the ocean. The deepest trench is the Mariana Trench, which is located in the Pacific Ocean and is over 36,000 feet deep(which isn't even tall enough to reach the Karman line, if you think about it).

#### 12.3. Oceanic Ridge System
 - If you were to drain all of that water, it would reveal an ocean floor that is far from smooth. In fact, you would see a continuous mountain chain located under the surface of the sea called the oceanic ridge system. 
 - When you stand on the coast and look out over the ocean, you can't see the ocean floor, but that doesn't mean there's nothing happening down there. In fact, ocean basins are constantly being shaped due to tectonic activity. Tectonic activity is defined as the deformation of the earth's crust due to the movement of tectonic plates. Tectonic activity is the process that leads to the building of oceanic ridges, so it will be beneficial for us to take a closer look at this process.
 -  The lithosphere extends approximately 60 miles below the earth's surface and is fractured into sections. These plate-like sections of lithosphere are called tectonic plates or lithospheric plates. Below the lithosphere, there is a zone of mantle that consists of semisolid rock that is very hot and deformable, known as the asthenosphere. Because this layer is hot and deformable, the plates of the lithosphere are able to slide over the top of it, somewhat like pucks slide over the top of an air hockey table. If the plates move away from each other, a gap is created. Hot molten rock, called magma, from the asthenosphere can push up through this gap, and this is the beginning of the formation of an oceanic ridge. As the magma seeps through the gap, it solidifies as it cools, creating a new layer of ocean crust. This process is called seafloor spreading. The magma that seeps through the gap is called lava once it reaches the surface of the ocean. As the lava cools, it forms a new layer of ocean crust. This process of seafloor spreading is what leads to the formation of oceanic ridges.
 - The oceanic ridges of the world are connected and combine to form the oceanic ridge system, making it the longest mountain range in the world, with a total length of approximately 50,000 miles. The continuous oceanic ridge system is distributed around the globe and parts of it can be found in every ocean. The ridge system travels down the center of the Atlantic Ocean, but in the other major oceans, it tends to meander on a course that is at times off-center and somewhat near land masses.

#### 12.4. Properties of Ocean Water
 - Most of the salt in the oceans originated from land. Rain, as well as moving water in rivers and streams, washes over rocks containing the mineral sodium chloride, which you know as common table salt. The salt is then carried into the oceans. Salt can also find its way into oceans through underwater volcanoes that stir up salt and other minerals from deep layers of the earth.
 - The salt in oceans becomes more concentrated over time as water from the surface of the ocean evaporates, leaving the salt behind. Salt is the main chemical ingredient in ocean water, but it also contains other chemicals, such as magnesium, sulfate, calcium and potassium. Many scientists believe that life began in the oceans, so it's not surprising that chemicals found in seawater are important chemicals needed to sustain life.
 - In addition, Oceans act as carbon sinks, which means that they are natural environments that absorb and store carbon dioxide. So oceans remove carbon dioxide, which is a greenhouse gas, from the atmosphere, making them important players in the study of global climate changes.
 - There is more gold in the oceans than humanity has mined in our history, but it is so diluted that it is not economical to mine it.
 - Oceans have a wide range of temperatures. The temperature is highest at the equator and grows increasingly colder as the water approach the poles. Compared to air, ocean water has a very high heat capacity. This means that there is more energy required to change the temperature of water. In other words, it takes a long time for the sun's energy to heat the ocean waters. And once the ocean is heated up, it takes a long time for the water to fully release that heat.
 - The freezing point for ocean water is 28 F, which is lower than the freezing point of freshwater. This is because of the salt in the water. The salt lowers the freezing point of water, which is why we put salt on icy roads in the winter. The salt lowers the freezing point of the water on the road, which helps to melt the ice.

#### 12.5. Marine Organisms 
 - Oceans are home to all sizes of creatures, from microscopic organisms to the world's largest animals. Let's start our discussion with some of the tiniest marine organisms there are, called plankton. Not the kind from SpongeBob though, but tiny/microscopic organisms that float in collective groups nearish to the surface of the water.
 - Plankton have no propulsion of their own, so they are at the total mercy of ocena currents. Some Plankton even photosynthesize, which means that they use the sun's energy to make their own food. Plankton are the base of the ocean food chain, so they are very important to the survival of many other marine organisms.
 - Seaweed is also a type of marine plant - it is an algae that grows with a very wide flat leaf such that it can absorb tons of sunlight. 
 - Many of the more unusual creatures of the sea are classified as invertebrates. The prefix 'in' means 'lacking,' and the suffix 'vertebrate' refers to having 'a backbone.' So, invertebrates, by definition, are 'lacking a backbone.'(otherwise known as Ron Desantis) Invertebrates are abundant in the ocean waters, and this might be because the ocean waters buoy them, making a backbone an unneeded feature.
 - Invertebrates also "glide" through the water in comparison to more complex vertebrates which use more body parts(due to having a fixed backbone) to move through the water. These include jellyfish, squids, octopus, sea anemones, and starfish.
 - Even though starfish have the word 'fish' in their name, they are not actually fish, because fish have backbones, making them vertebrates. Still, not the point! Even though fish are varied, they share many features that allow them to live under water. For example, they have fins that they use for propulsion, gills to extract oxygen from the water and protective scales covering their bodies. Many fish also have swim bladders, which are like internal air balloons that they can use to control buoyancy as they move to different depths within the water.
 - Ocean waters can get mighty cold, so it's surprising to learn about just how many warm-blooded mammals make their homes in the oceans. Marine mammals, including whales, dolphins, manatees, sea otters, seals and walruses share many characteristics with land-dwelling mammals, including you and me. For instance, all mammals, whether they live on land or under the water, give birth to live young and feed their young with milk. But, marine mammals have some adaptations that allow them to live in the harsh ocean environment. These adaptations include fur and a high fat content for warmth. They also have skin that is impervious to the salty seawater. The most extreme mammal in the ocean are probably whales, which are both gigantic and warm-blooded despite the depths they can reach.
 - Discussing this would be incomplete without mentioning reptiles and sea birds - neither of which actually live in the ocean, but are dependent on water for food. Seabirds have huge evolutionary adjustments to catch fish, and reptiles like sea turtles, crocodiles, and others feed in marine environments and lay their eggs there.


#### 12.6 Ocean Circulation
 - Ocean currents travel at both the surface of the ocean, as well as deep within the ocean basin. Currents are influenced by factors such as wind, the rotation of the earth, differences in the water's salt content, temperature and density, and even the shape of the ocean floor. 
 - Surface ocean currents are strongly influenced by the wind. Prevailing winds, which are winds that blow predominantly from a particular direction, flow across the ocean surface, pushing the water in large circular ocean currents called ocean gyres. It might help you to recall this term if you remember that the word 'gyre' is Latin for 'circle,' which is the pattern these surface currents take.
 - Ocean gyres are present in every ocean and move water from the poles to the equator and back again. The water warms at the equator and cools at the poles. Because ocean water temperatures can transfer to the air, the cold and warm waters circulated by the gyres influence the climate of nearby landmasses. Gyres circulation is influenced by the Coriolis Effect, which is the phenomenon created by the rotation of the earth that causes rotation in a clockwise direction in the Northern Hemisphere and counterclockwise in the Southern Hemisphere.
 - Along wind-blown coastlines, we may see areas of upwelling. Upwelling is the rising of cold, nutrient-rich water to the surface. As winds blow along the coast, they move the relatively warm surface water. This allows colder and nutrient-rich waters from the ocean floor to rise up and take its place.
 - Deep ocean currents are strongly driven by the density of the ocean waters. And the density of ocean water is mainly dependent on the water's temperature and salinity, or salt content. Due to relative salinity, colder and saltier water is denser than warmer and less salty water. Thermohaline circulation is the largest ocean circulation pattern and is directly related to temperature and salinity.
 - The thermohaline circulation is sometimes referred to as the 'global ocean conveyor belt' because it moves water on a path through the world's oceans as if it were on a giant conveyor belt that travels the entire globe. As you can imagine, this current moves a massive amount of water and distributes heat along its way, which in turn influences the global climate.
 - The pattern begins in the frigid northern waters near Iceland, where the ocean water is cold and salty. This cold, salty water is dense and starts to drive the current. The current moves on a path southward, across the equator and down the coast of South America. Along its travels, the current builds and picks up momentum, and by the time it nears Antarctica, it is massive. The current moves along the bottom of the world and splits, with one branch entering the Indian Ocean and the other entering the Pacific Ocean. The branches of circulating water warm in these oceans and then rejoin as they turn west and get drawn back up to the polar regions where they began their journey.

#### 12.7. Shoreline Definition
 - The shoreline is the line along the edge of the ocean where land meets the water. It is a dynamic place that is always changing due to forces acting upon it from waves, currents and winds.
 - Many shorelines are highly irregular, with bays(inset areas of water) and headlands(areas of land that extend out into the water). 
 - Beaches are areas of shoreline that are made up of sand, gravel, pebbles, or shells - basically, any loose material that is deposited by the waves. 
 - The foreshore is the area of the beach that lies between the low and high tide marks. It rises out of the water and abuts up against the next feature known as the beach berm, which is the area of the beach mostly above water that is formed by different levels of wave activity. These can sometimes stack up to form a series of berms, which are called beach ridges.
 - Farther inland we find sand dunes, which are mounds of sand that are formed by the wind blowing back and forth across the beach.
 - How sand and sediment is deposited on a beach is in large part due to the longshore drift, which is the process by which sand and sediment is transported along the coast. The longshore drift is influenced by the angle of the waves hitting the shore and currents along the shore. It can carry large amounts of sediment along the length of the shoreline and create offshore sandbars. For example, a spit is an elongated sandbar that extends from the coast into the mouth of an adjacent bay. 
 - If sand settles between two land masses, it may form a tombolo, which is another shoreline feature that can result due to the movement of sand and is defined as a mound of sand that joins an island to the mainland. If you have ever walked out to an island from the mainland, you were walking on a tombolo.
 - If wave and current conditions deposit sand and sediment out in the ocean, a barrier island might form. A barrier island is a sandbar that runs parallel to the coast, but remains separated by water. If you stand on the shoreline and look out into the ocean at a barrier island, it's easy to imagine it looking like a wall or barrier protecting the mainland from the harsh ocean waves.  Barrier islands "catch" some of the worst of the weather, and are frequently hurt by hurricanes and other storms.
 