### Andrew Garber
### Jan 30
### AP Environmental Science
### Chapter 13: Water Resources and Water Pollution

#### 13.1 Carbon & Nitrogen Cycles
 - One of the ways that nature recycles matter is through the carbon cycle. The carbon cycle is carbon cycling through the global environment. Carbon is a chemical element and a key component of many systems in the biosphere, from acting as part of the earth's thermostat to being one of the key elements in photosynthesis, which is when plants make sugars for energy.
 - In order for the ecosystem to function properly, all parts need an adequate supply of carbon. This is usually not a problem since nature is efficient at carbon cycling. Since the process is a cycle, we need to pick some place to begin.
 - 0.038% of the athmosphere is carbon dioxide, which while it doesn't seem like a lot is absolutely essential for the functioning of the ecosystem. There are two ways for carbon to be removed from the atmosphere. The first is through photosynthesis, where plants take in CO2, water and sunlight to create sugars for energy, and oxygen gas emerges as a by-product. Once inside plants, carbon moves through food chains, where organisms become nutrients including herbivores, carnivores and ultimately, decomposers. Through living organisms, carbon is either re-released back into the atmosphere through respiration (where organisms use oxygen to generate energy from nutrients and produce carbon dioxide as waste), released by combustion (the process of burning something) or broken down into the soil as part of the organism's body. Once buried in the soil, carbon can be converted into fossil fuels over long periods of time and then also reenter the atmosphere by combustion.
 - If carbon from the atmosphere does not enter a terrestrial (or land) plant by photosynthesis, it can dissolve in the ocean. Here it can be taken up by marine plants through photosynthesis - just like in land plants - or it can be incorporated into sediments. Marine organisms can also take up dissolved carbon molecules and use that along with calcium in the seawater to make calcium carbonate, which is a major component of the shells and skeletons of marine organisms.
 - When these organisms die, their shells and bones settle to the bottom of the ocean, where they can be covered up and remain for long periods of time. Under great pressure from the water and sediment, these shells break down and form limestone rock.
 - Limestone is the largest storage reservoir of carbon on the earth. Once formed into limestone, carbon usually stays locked in the rock. However, it can also dissolve very slowly to be released as carbon dioxide back into the atmosphere, or, if the limestone is exposed to weathering and dissolved by acid rain, be released as carbon dioxide. This completes the cycle, returning all carbon back to the atmosphere where it began. 
 - Like carbon, nitrogen also has always been present on the earth, and in the nitrogen cycle, nitrogen cycles through the global environment. Nitrogen is also a chemical element, and it is the most abundant element in the atmosphere, making up 78% of the atmosphere. Nitrogen is very unreactive with other elements, and it cannot be used directly as a nutrient by plants and animals the way oxygen or carbon can. However, nitrogen can be converted into forms usable by plants and animals, either by lightning or bacteria. Once converted to usable forms, nitrogen is able to cycle the rest of the way through the ecosystem.
 - In a process known as nitrogen fixation, special bacteria can convert nitrogen gas in the atmosphere directly into ammonia, which is an important nutrient for plants. In this manner, nitrogen enters the ecosystem from the atmosphere. This conversion is performed either by cyanobacteria in the soil or by a bacteria that lives in the roots of certain plants known as legumes, such as soybeans or alfalfa. This is why soybeans and alfalfa are often used as cover crops, because they can help to replenish nitrogen in the soil.
 - Once nitrogen is split into nitrates or fixed by bacteria, plant roots can absorb nitrogen compounds in a process known as assimilation. Once absorbed, DNA, proteins and amino acids are the main nitrogen-containing compounds in the plant. Animals also need nitrogen to make these same compounds, so they get it from the food they eat, like plants or other animals. Nitrogen is then held in the body in these organisms until they die. After death, decomposers, like fungus and bacteria, convert the nitrogen from the proteins, DNA and other compounds back into ammonia substances and eventually to nitrogen gas to be used again.
 - This is a closed-cycle, meaning that nitrogen is not lost from the ecosystem.

#### 13.2. Properties of Water
 - The chemical formula for water is H20, which means that it is made up of 2 hydrogens and 1 oxygen. These different parts of the molecule are held together by covalent bonds.
 - The hydrogen bonds in water make the molecules cohesive, which means they stick together really well. The cohesion of water is much stronger than most other liquids, and this is very important. For example, water and nutrients can be transported from tree roots to other parts of the plant with cohesion.
 - Water also has fairly high surface tension, which is the ability of water to resist external forces. This is why water forms droplets when it is on a surface, it "coheres" on top of a penny, and it can support small insects like water striders.
 - More important than its physical properties are its interior physics properties. Why do coastal areas tend to have more consistent temperatures throughout the year while areas that are farther inland have more extreme highs and lows? This is due to water's high specific heat capacity. Specific heat capacity is the resistance to temperature change. It takes a lot of energy to change the temperature of water because it takes a lot of energy to break the hydrogen bonds. Water absorbs and stores a large amount of heat from the sun and, as it cools, it releases this heat into the air that travels onto land. So in winter, when the air is colder than the water, the air literally picks up the water's heat as it passes over it onto land and warms it. Likewise, in the summer when the air is hotter than the water, the air cools off as it travels past the ocean to land and cools the shore. 
 - We can find water on Earth in three different forms: solid, liquid and gas. Most things become more dense when they cool because their molecules are condensing together, and become less dense when they heat up because their molecules are moving farther apart from each other. Do you think water behaves like this? It sure doesn't! When water becomes cooler and freezes, it actually expands, because each water molecule connects to its neighboring water molecules with hydrogen bonds. This creates a crystal-shaped structure between the molecules, which spreads them out and increases the volume. And since this makes ice less dense, this means it floats on top of water.

#### 13.3 Water Resources Issues
 - Aquifer depletion is when more water is pumped from the aquifer than is allowed to recharge, and this can cause serious problems in the landscape.
 - Just like aquifers, surface waters also provide a necessary source of drinking water, crop irrigation and energy. And, just like aquifers, streams, lakes and rivers can also be overdrawn.
 - Water in the Colorado River has been diverted and withdrawn for human needs for many decades. Because of the redirection and depletion of this water supply, it no longer reaches the Gulf of California, though it used to be a strong and steady supply of water, sediment and nutrients to this area. Similarly, the Rio Grande, the Nile and the Yellow River in China all run dry in areas that used to be flush with fresh water.
 - The Aral Sea in Central Asia is one of the most extreme examples of overdrawing surface water. What used to be the fourth largest lake on Earth is now only one-fifth of its original volume, a change that happened over only 40 years! The cause of this depletion was massive withdrawal for irrigation. What remains of the Aral Sea is a hostile environment of stranded boats, dust contaminated with pesticides and an economic disaster from the loss of agriculture and fishing jobs.
 - Irrigation is a process that not only removes large amounts of water from both below and above ground, but it also adds dissolved salts back into the soils, which leads to the salinization of these soils. The water used for irrigation isn't very salty itself; the concentration is actually pretty low. What happens is that the land is irrigated and much of the water evaporates as it reaches the ground. This leaves the salts behind on the ground, salinizing the soil. The application of fertilizers to crops adds even more salt to the soil, exacerbating the problem.
 - Salinized soils are a problem because the excess salts prevent plants from taking up water. This not only affects native plants, but also the agricultural crops that are being grown, which greatly reduces crop yield. Salty soils also affect the ecosystem overall, because they alter the natural conditions that plants and animals are adapted to. The excess salt may also run off into surface waters or leach into groundwater supplies, which causes salinization and contamination of those water supplies.


#### 13.4. Water Overdrawing
 - Aquifers are a major supply source to surface waters, releasing almost 500 billion gallons of water daily to surface water systems in the U.S. alone!
 - The world's largest aquifer, the Ogallala Aquifer, is found underneath the Great Plains of the United States. Before pumping of this aquifer began, it had a water-holding capacity of almost 900 cubic miles, was over 1200 feet deep at its thickest point, and spanned over 175,000 square miles in eight different states.
 - Before irrigation and pumping practices in this area began in the 1950s, the Great Plains area was actually quite dry. Droughts were frequent, and agriculture was very unproductive. However, since that time, the Ogallala Aquifer has become an important source of drinking water for approximately 2.3 million people, and over a quarter of the irrigated land in the U.S. is found in this area.
 - The volume and extent of the aquifer has been greatly reduced because too much water has been removed too quickly. Since pumping of the aquifer began in the 1950s, the total water storage has been depleted by about 9%. The U.S. Geological Survey estimates that about a third of the cumulative depletion of the Ogallala Aquifer occurred from just 2001 to 2008. And, while in recent years there have been many efforts to conserve the aquifer, it will take more than our lifetimes for it to recharge to the volume and size that it once was.
 - The depletion of such a large water supply has led to issues for human health and economics. People have started to realize that the aquifer is not a renewable source, as the recent droughts in this part of the country have emphasized. Water is essential to the productivity of the Great Plains area, and as water shortages become more common, livelihoods of farmers and ranchers will be impacted both by the cost and availability of water.



#### 13.5. Water Conservation
 - The conservation of water is a major issue as our stocks of freshwater cannot be replaced nearly as quickly as they are being used, save for massive expenditures of energy and money to desalinate seawater. Innovation is coming in this space, but it is not yet at a point where it can be relied upon to provide a significant portion of our water supply - in the meantime, we must conserve.
 - Consumptive use is when water is not returned to the source from which it was removed. When water is removed from a source for outdoor usage, much of it evaporates into an unusable form in the air. Sometimes this water returns to the ground as rainwater, but because the clouds that trap this water tend to travel, the water in them will likely fall somewhere other than where it was removed from. This creates an imbalance in the water cycle, and can lead to water shortages in the area from which the water was removed.
 - Agriculture is a major use of water, and it is used fairly innefficiently. Runoff is also a major issue here, as the water used for irrigation can become tainted with fertilizers and pesticides(good things by themselves, just not good for the water supply) and then run off into surface waters, contaminating them.
 - Nonconsumptive use is when water is not removed from the source or is only removed temporarily, the best example of this is hydroelectric power generation. The water is used to turn turbines, and then is returned to the source. The water is not consumed, just its movement is used to generate power.
 - So how can water be used more sustainably? Using water with conservation and efficiency in mind is important to preserving our freshwater supplies. Many strides have been made in the agricultural industry to use water more efficiently. Drip irrigation is one method that can be up to 90% efficient for watering crops. This practice slowly drips water directly onto the soil or plant roots instead of spraying water from above. Drip irrigation reduces both evaporation rates and the total amount of water used. This was pioneered in Israel, where water is a scarce resources and the technology has been exported to many other countries.
 - Climate-matched crops are another good way to conserve water, meaning that huge irrigation systems are not needed to grow crops that are not suited to the local climate. This is a major issue in the American Southwest, where water is scarce and the climate is very dry. If you grow rice and cotton in the desert, you are going to need a lot of water to do so. 
 - In addition, we should fully accelerate efforts in regards to desalination in order to make this problem nearly irrelevant. If we could desalinate seawater at a reasonable cost and recover resources from the seawater we could solve many of the world's water & rare earth mineral problems.

