### Andrew Garber
### AP Environmental Science
### February 21 2024
### Chapter 14: Minerals

#### 14.1. Minerals
 - In order for something to be a mineral, it must first meet four criteria: it must be solid, naturally formed, have a unique and specific chemical composition, and have a crystalline structure.
 - Minerals are classified by their chemical composition and crystalline structure. These two features occur on a microscopic level, but we can see them in other ways because they determine a mineral's observable physical properties. In other words, what appears to us on the outside is determined by what's on the inside.
 - There are seven physical properties of minerals that we can observe: crystal form, hardness, fracture or cleavage, luster, color, streak, and density.
 - Crystal form is the outward expression of the arrangement of atoms inside a mineral.  Normally, what you see is a salt cube, but if you were to break this cube down into smaller parts, it would simply break into smaller and smaller cubes because that is how the atoms are arranged.
 - Hardness is how resistant a mineral is to scratching, not how easily it breaks. Hardness depends on the bonds within the mineral, so the stronger the bonds, the harder the mineral. Mineral hardness is measured on the Mohs scale of hardness, which compares the hardness of different minerals.
 - Fracture and cleavage describe how a mineral breaks. Some minerals break very nicely along smooth planes, and this is called cleavage. Minerals that break this way do so because their atoms are arranged so that they break apart from each other along these planes. Mica is an example of a mineral that has cleavage. If a mineral fractures, it breaks in uneven ways that are not flat or parallel. Again, these minerals break like this because that's how their atoms are arranged.
 - Luster is simply the reflectivity of a mineral. Some have a metallic luster, which is like a shiny piece of aluminum, or non-metallic luster, which is not shiny and is generally dull.
 - Some minerals can be identified by their color, but some minerals, such as quartz, come in many colors. Streak is often a better way to identify a mineral, which is the color that shows up when a mineral is scraped across an unglazed porcelain plate. However, minerals with non-metallic luster all have a white streak, so this is really only helpful for minerals with a metallic luster.
 - Finally, the density is how tightly packed the material of the mineral is. Minerals that are more dense have more tightly packed atoms than those that are less dense.
 - Minerals are a huge percentage of what we use every day. Precious stones and gemstones are things that you are likely quite familiar with. They are rubies, diamonds, emeralds and the like. Metals, like gold, silver, copper, lead, iron and zinc, are extracted from ore, and the process of extracting these minerals is called metallurgy.


#### 14.3. Extraction and Processing of Minerals
 - The process of extracting minerals from the Earth is called mining. There are two types of mining: surface mining and underground mining, and both have significant environmental impacts if not done responsibly(and even if they are).
 - Surface mining is exactly what it sounds like, removing the top layer of the Earth to get to the minerals underneath. When the ore deposits are huge(like for some coal mining), open-pit mining is used. This is when a large hole is dug and the ore is removed. Strip mining is similar, but is basically just a smaller "line" of open-pit mining. The material that is cast aside here is called overburden, and is often dumped into big piles called spoil banks.
 - Underground mining is used when the ore deposits are not as easily accessible. This is done by digging shafts and tunnels to get to the ore. This is a very dangerous job, and the miners are at risk of cave-ins, explosions, and exposure to toxic gases.
 - One way is to blast apart the material and then send the ore pieces up to the surface in carts. Another method is longwall mining, which is when coal is sheared from the wall and collected on a conveyor belt, much like a potato peeler shears away layers of a potato. This is a very efficient way of extracting coal from an underground mine. Another method is solution mining, which is when hot water is injected into the ore to dissolve it. 
 - Subsurface mining is actually less disruptive to the earth and produces less waste than surface mining, but it's also much less effective and more dangerous. Many workers die in mine collapses, which then also leaves behind a large hole from caving in of the ground above. Water may leak into the mine and dissolve toxic chemicals that may leak into aquifers and drinking water supplies. Explosions in old mining tunnels may also occur because the natural gas underground ignites very easily.
 - Besides erosion problems and changes to the landscape, mining also causes pollution in the air and water. Abandoned coal mines lead to acid mine drainage, which is water that is full of metals and toxins. Much like hot water dripping through coffee in a filter, rainwater picks up the harmful components in the ground and carries them off as surface and groundwater runoff. This runoff can end up in streams, rivers and lakes that are nearby.
 - Also, smelting is how we extract metals from their ores. This is done by heating the ore to high temperatures and then separating the metal from the waste material. This process releases a lot of air pollution, including sulfur dioxide and heavy metals. The waste material is called slag, and it is often dumped into piles that can leach heavy metals into the environment.

#### 14.5. Crystal Formation Shapes
 - At the microscopic level, a crystal is a solid formed by regularly-repeating patterns of molecules that are connected together. Now, not all solids are crystals. In a non-crystal solid, the arrangement of the molecules is random throughout the material; it's not regular. Still, at the microscopic level, the crystal is characterized by the unit cell, which is a collection of molecules repeated in exactly the same arrangement throughout the entire material.
 - At the macroscopic level, geologists use the term "crystal shape" or "crystal habit" to describe the visible external shape of a sample of a material. There are two general types of crystal shapes: euhedral and anhedral. Euhedral crystals are those that have well-formed, sharp, and distinct edges and faces. Anhedral crystals are those that do not have well-formed faces and edges. They are irregular in shape and are often found in a mass of other crystals.
 - Diamonds are euhedral crystals, and they have octahedral shapes. Magnetite is another example of a mineral that has euhedral crystals, and they have octahedral shapes as well. 
 - Now let's move on to the crystal habits that don't have a regular geometric shape. Some minerals rarely develop perfect geometric forms at the surface. However, other characteristics can be helpful in identification of these minerals. For example, kyanite has a bladed habit, as its crystals are elongated and flattened in one direction, much like the blade of a knife.
 - Tourmaline has a prismatic, or prism-like habit, as the crystals are prism-like; that is, elongated but not flattened. Still, other minerals are banded, as they have stripes or bands of different colors or different textures. Rhodochrosite is a banded mineral as it has characteristic layered texture and color. Hematite forms an interesting botryoidal habit that resembles a cluster of grapes.

