### Andrew Garber
### AP Environmental Science
### March 8 2024
### Chapter 15: Ecosystems

### 15.1: Levels of Ecology
 - Ecology is the study of the interactions between organisms and the environment they live in, which brings us to another important term that's used frequently in ecology: the environment, which is the set of conditions that surround an organism. Environmental factors include temperature, light, water, air, soil and nutrients that surround an organism. An environment can be very large and even refer to the entire Earth. An environment can also be very small. For example, the environment of an intracellular parasite can be as small as a single host cell. In most cases, when the term environment is used in the context of ecology, it refers to all the abiotic factors, or nonliving environmental factors that surround an organism. However, in the case of organisms that live inside other organisms, we can't really be strict about this particular definition because the tissue surrounding these organisms is living, but that still doesn't exclude the tissue from being a part of the environment nonetheless.
 - At the most basic level, we have organismal ecology, which is the interactions a single organism has with its environment.
 - All organisms in a particular geographic area that belong to the same species make up a population. Population ecology is the study of how populations interact with the environment.
 - A community is made up of all the populations of different species that live in a particular area. Community ecology is the study of how communities interact with the environment.
 - Ecosystem ecology is the study of how the living and nonliving components of an ecosystem interact with each other. An ecosystem is made up of all the living organisms in a particular area and the nonliving components of the environment, such as the atmosphere, soil, water and sunlight. Ecosystems can be very small, such as a pond, or very large, and can span thousands of square kilometers, such as a forest.
 - A biosphere is the global ecosystem, which is the sum of all the planet's ecosystems and landscapes. The biosphere is the highest level of ecological organization and includes all the living organisms on Earth and the nonliving components with which they interact.

### 15.2: Ecosystem, Habitat & Niche
 - An ecosystem is made up of all the living organisms in a particular area and the nonliving components of the environment, such as the atmosphere, soil, water and sunlight. Ecosystems can be very small, such as a pond, or very large, and can span thousands of square kilometers, such as a forest.
 - A habitat is the specific environment in which an organism lives. A habitat can be as small as the area under a rock or as large as the entire Amazon rainforest. A habitat can be very specific, such as the inside of a particular type of flower, or very general, such as the open ocean.
 - A niche is the role an organism plays in its environment. It includes the organism's habitat, the food it eats, the way it gets its food, and the other organisms it interacts with. The niche of an organism is like its job. Just as a person can have a job that involves many different tasks, an organism's niche can involve many different interactions with other organisms and the environment. The niche of an organism is a very important concept in ecology because it helps us understand how organisms interact with each other and their environment. How niches play off each other is a key factor in determining the structure and function of ecosystems.
 - Population density is the number of individuals of a population that live in a particular area. This is effected by a variety of factors, including the availability of food, the presence of predators, and the presence of disease. The population density of a species can have a big impact on the structure and function of an ecosystem. There are far more factors that can affect population density, but these are just a few examples.

#### 15.3. Three Laws of Thermodynamics
 - The first law of thermodynamics states that energy can't be created or destroyed, but you can convert it from one form to another. This is also known as the law of conservation of energy. 
 - Now, the second law of thermodynamics states that not all energy can be used. If you are trying to push a stalled car down the street and you get it moving a tad, and then it stops, that energy dissipates as friction and head. This is known as the law of entropy. 
 - The third law of thermodynamics states that as temperature approaches absolute zero, the entropy of a system approaches a minimum. This is known as the law of absolute zero. In effect, as things get colder, they become more ordered(this makes sense, as the molecules are moving slower and are more likely to be in a specific place).

#### 15.4. Global Ecology
 - Ecology is defined as the study of the distribution and abundance of organisms, the relationships between organisms and the interaction between organisms and their environment.
 - However, the scale to which they influence the environment is a differentiating line between them. A population ecology is the study of the interactions of a single species with other members of its species and the species' environment. A community ecology is the study of the interactions of all the species in a particular area. An ecosystem ecology is the study of the interactions of all the species in a particular area and the nonliving components of the environment. A global ecology is the study of the interactions of all the species in a particular area and the nonliving components of the environment, but on a global scale.
 - Global ecology is the study of the interactions among the Earth's ecosystems, land, atmosphere and oceans. Global ecology is very important because it is used to understand large scale interactions and how they influence the behavior of the entire planet, including the earth's responses to future changes.

#### 15.5 Biodiversity
 - Biodiversity is the variety of life on Earth across all of the different levels of biological organization. Biodiversity can be applied to the variance within the genetic makeup of a single species all the way to the variance of ecosystem types. It is a scalar, and can be applied to the smallest of scales, such as a single species, or to the largest of scales, such as the entire planet's ecosystems.
 - Species diversity is defined as the number and abundance of different species that occupy a location. To accurately determine species diversity, both the species richness, which is the number of different species, and the relative abundance, which is the number of individuals within each species, must be considered. An example of species diversity would be the number and abundance of different types of mammals in a forest.
 - The second type of biodiversity is genetic diversity. Genetic diversity is the amount of variation in genetic material within a species or within a population. There is a high level of diversity among species, but there is an even higher level of diversity among the genetic material of the individuals of a specific species. An example of genetic diversity is the variation in the genes that encode for hair color in humans.
 - The third type of biodiversity is ecological diversity, and this is the variation in the ecosystems found in a region or the variation in ecosystems over the whole planet. Ecological diversity includes the variation in both terrestrial and aquatic ecosystems. Ecological diversity can also take into account the variation in the complexity of a biological community, including the number of different niches, the number of trophic levels and other ecological processes. Simulating such things in a computer is a very difficult task, and it is not yet possible to accurately simulate the complexity of an ecosystem in a computer(though researchers have been working on new and interesting ways to do so - however, I think it is similar to trying to simulate the economy. You simply cannot conceive of all the variables that go into it, and even if you could, you would not be able to accurately predict the outcome of the system).
 - Ecosystem stability is the ability of an ecosystem to maintain a steady state, even after a stress or disturbance has occurred. In order for an ecosystem to be considered stable, it needs to have mechanisms in place that help it return to its original state after a disturbance occurs. One of the simplest mechanisms here is birth and death rates. If a major predator is removed from an ecosystem, or decreases in population significantly, a resultant rise in prey population will occur. This will then be an ample food source for predators, and the predator population will rise again. Some might even call this a boom-bust cycle--economics and ecology are not so different after all.

#### 15.6. Energy Flow in an ecosystem
 - We have been doing food chains since 3rd grade, so I am going to just find the nuggets here.
 - For autotrophs, those who harness energy using photosynthesis, the energy is stored in the form of glucose. They can only convert about 1% of the light that hits them into usable energy, of the that energy about 30% is used for metabolic processes and then becomes dissipated as heat. The rest is stored as energy.
 - Consumers do not consume all of the energy stored in producers; they only consume about one-seventh of all of the energy stored, which turns out to be about ten percent of the total energy that is harnessed by producers through photosynthesis. They also use energy very differently than producers, and that is largely due to the fact that consumers are usually mobile.
 - So, when all is said and done, the consumers at each trophic level, on average, pass along about ten percent of the total energy they receive to the next trophic level that feeds upon them. Most of the other 90% of the energy is used in various functions, such as metabolism and movement, and is ultimately dissipated as heat, and whatever isn't used or eaten by predators is consumed by detritivores(those who eat waste and dead organisms). This is why the slope of the energy pyramid is so steep, and why there are so few top predators in an ecosystem. It takes a *ton* of energy to support a large predator, and there simply isn't enough energy to go around to have an equal number of large predators like wolves and bears as there are herbivores like deer and rabbits.
  

#### 15.7. Phosphorus Cycle 
 - Oxygen, Carbon, Hydrogen, and Nitrogen make up the majority of the atmsophere. But there are some smaller macrominerals that are important including phosphorus, calcium, potassium, sodium, chlorine, and magnesium.
 - Organisms are constantly consuming molecules from their environment, incorporating elements that they need and eliminating the byproducts of biochemical processes. These byproducts are generally composed of all the same elements that the organisms contain themselves. The result is that all elements that living things use are constantly cycling through organisms and the environment they live in. How an element cycles through organisms and the environment is called a biogeochemical cycle.
 - Not all elements take the same route through the biogeochemical cycle. Each element is different and is available to organisms in different ways and in different concentrations. So let's take a closer look at how phosphorus is cycled. The phosphorus cycle is the biogeochemical cycle that phosphorus follows through organisms and the environment. As far as biogeochemical cycles go, the phosphorus cycle is fairly simple. Phosphorus is found in many types of rock as phosphate ions. Weathering of the rocks releases phosphate into the soil, where it can be absorbed by plants. Once in plants, the phosphate becomes available to consumers and eventually detritivores, which can recycle it back into the soil or back into consumers.
 - Phosphate is bound by soil, and it doesn't enter the atmosphere as a gas, so it tends to stay in the local biological cycle for long periods of time. However, it can be removed from an area by harvesting crops, and some of it does leach through the soil and into the local water table. This phosphate eventually becomes part of new sedimentary rocks and is unavailable for biological use until the rock is brought to the surface by geological forces and weathering releases phosphate into the soil. Not surprisingly, people have found a way to replace phosphate removed by harvesting crops by mining for phosphate-containing rocks and turning them into fertilizer. This is essentially speeding up the natural weathering process, at least regarding phosphate distribution.


#### 15.8. The Nitrogen Cycle 
 - The process of creating ammonia from atmospheric nitrogen is called nitrogen fixation. There are many types of nitrogen fixing bacteria. Some are free-living soil bacteria, others are nitrogen fixing symbiotic bacteria that live in roots of some species of plants, and in the oceans a major source of nitrogen fixation is cyanobacteria which are also sometimes called blue-green algae. All of these bacteria are fixing nitrogen for their own use, but they also release excess ammonia that can be used by other organisms; and of course, they can also be directly consumed by other organisms and pass the fixed nitrogen up the food chain that way too.
 - Ammonia isn't just used by plants and producers to make organic molecules, some aerobic bacteria can use ammonia as an energy source by oxidizing ammonia to make nitrite, which can then be further oxidized by other bacteria to make nitrate.
 - This process by which ammonia is converted to nitrite and then to nitrate is called nitrification. Fortunately, plants and other producers can also use nitrite and nitrate as sources of nitrogen, so nitrification doesn't really change the amount of available nitrogen in the environment, it just changes its oxidation state. However, there are still yet other bacteria that use nitrate as a source of oxygen and convert nitrate back into atmospheric nitrogen in a process called denitrification.
 -  Nitrogen fixing bacteria in the soil and in plant roots convert nitrogen from the atmosphere to ammonia. The ammonia is then used by plants or converted to nitrite and then nitrate by nitrifying bacteria. The nitrite and nitrate can also be used by plants. The plants are then eaten by herbivores, which can then be eaten by carnivores. Animal waste products are high in ammonia and ammonia derivatives like urea, both of which are usable sources of nitrogen for plants. If there is an abundance of nitrate in the soil, denitrifying bacteria can convert some of it back to atmospheric nitrogen. Now if the plants in the ecosystem are crops and are removed after harvest, there will be no animal waste or plant litter to replenish the usable nitrogen in the soil. So, a common practice in agriculture is to replenish the soil with synthetic fertilizers that contain ammonia, nitrite or nitrate.
 -  Over-fertilization of farmland can result in excess nitrogen compounds entering a nearby stream or lake and causing eutrophication, or the ecological process that occurs when excess nutrients are added to a body of water. Eutrophication can occur naturally, and natural eutrophication occurs over a long period of time, which allows the organisms living in the body of water time to adjust to the change gradually and maintain balance. When an inbalance caused by human activity occurs, it generally is far more rapid and can cause a rapid increase in the growth of algae and other plants.
 -  Another part of the nitrogen cycle is a result of the combustion of organic material. When fossil fuels, like petroleum, coal and natural gas, and other organic materials, like grass, trees and brush, are burned, they release large amounts of carbon dioxide, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides into the atmosphere. But it should be noted that the burning of some of these materials, especially coal, releases much greater quantities of these pollutants into the air than burning natural gas does.
 -  While nitrogen oxides are considered nutrients in the soil, in the atmosphere it's a different story. In the atmosphere, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides react with water to create sulfuric and nitric acids. This results in acid rain, or rain that has been made more acidic by the addition of sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxides in the atmosphere. 