### Andrew Garber
### March 26 2024
### Chapter 16: Evolving Ecosystems

### 16.1.
 - Temperate deciduous forests are forests in temperate climates that are characterized by broad-leaved deciduous trees. These forests are found at mid-latitudes in areas that get significant rainfall in the warm summer months, which can support fast-growing species like birch, hickory, maple, and sycamore trees.
 - Tropical rainforests are forests in the tropics that receive over 100 inches of rainfall per year. Most types of forests can support large populations of plants and animals; however, tropical rainforests support the greatest number of species of any other type of biome on the planet. This incredible species richness is due largely to the combination of a tropical climate and high, year-round rainfall, which provide optimal growing conditions for the largest number of plant species. In turn, the high number of plant species can support a high number of animal species
 - Savanna is essentially grassland interspersed with trees. It is sometimes found in temperate climates, usually in areas that are transitional zones between grassland and forests. However, savanna is mostly found in tropical regions of the world where the climate changes in a seasonal pattern from cool and dry to hot and dry and then to warm and wet before starting the cycle again the following year. This is the type of savanna found in the Serengeti National Park, which is famous around the world for supporting so many large animals such as giraffes, elephants, rhinos, zebras, wildebeest, cheetahs, leopards, and lions.
 - Lakes, ponds, streams, and rivers are all examples of freshwater aquatic biomes. Since lakes, ponds, streams, and rivers are often naturally isolated from each other in many ways, species of freshwater fish are often found only in one particular lake or river system or even in a single stream. These species are said to be endemic, or only found in one particular area.
 - Desert biomes are characterized by very little rainfall, so any landscape that gets less than 12 inches of rain per year can be considered desert. They occur at all latitudes, and although the popular depiction of deserts is a vast expanse of nothing but sand for miles, deserts can have a variety of soils, plant life, and animal life. In the Australian Outback, drought-resistant plants with small, leathery leaves are common, and some plants, like the desert bloodwood tree, store large quantities of water in their roots to survive prolonged periods of drought.


### 16.3. Primary Productivity
 - The plants that conduct photosynthesis are known as autotrophic because they produce their own food. These types of plants are also referred to as primary producers because the food they create is the main source of energy that is consumed by other organisms. Primary production is the term used to describe the amount of new organic material, or biomass, created by the primary producers in an ecosystem. It is important to understand primary production and the amount of organic materials produced because all organisms, including humans, rely on this material that plants produce to survive.
 - Biomes are large terrestrial or aquatic regions on Earth that are characterized by a unique climate and community of plants and animals. Due to the fact that the descriptions of biomes are changing and new biomes are being identified, the number of different biomes on Earth is not a set number.
 - There are many biomes on Earth that have high levels of primary productivity. These highly productive areas have an average annual net primary production of over 1,000 grams per square meter per year. The aquatic biome with the highest level of primary productivity is the coral reef biome with around 2,500 grams of biomass per square meter per year. The biome that includes swamps and marshes and the estuary biome are the other aquatic biomes that have high levels of primary productivity. These biomes have higher levels of primary productivity than other aquatic biomes because, in these regions, there is an increase in nutrient availability.
 - Biomes that are considered moderate in their primary productivity produce between 500 and 1000 grams of biomass per square meter per year. All three biomes in this category are terrestrial and include tropical savannas, boreal forests, and temperate grasslands. These biomes receive less rain than the biomes that produce high levels of primary productivity and are more prone to long periods without water.
 - The biomes that have low levels of primary productivity produce less than 500 grams of biomass per square meter per year and include deserts, the tundra, the open ocean, and the lakes and streams biome. The desert and tundra biomes have low levels of primary productivity, 90 and 140 grams per square meter per year, respectively. These low levels are due to the very small amounts of rainfall and extreme temperatures. Although there are plants adapted to live in these biomes, they are slow growing and do not produce a large amount of biomass. The aquatic biomes with the lowest levels of primary productivity are the open ocean and lakes and streams. These biomes have low production because of the limited amount of nutrients available. In addition, the open ocean also has low primary productivity because the sunlight is not able to penetrate the deep water and photosynthesis can only occur in more shallow areas.



### 16.4. Succession
 - If an environmnental change is severe enough to strip away the existing vegetation or expose a new landscape, species will colonize the disturbed area and then likely be replaced by other species. Over ecological time, the area may experience several transitions in species composition. This process by which the species structure of an ecological community changes over time is called ecological succession.
 - There are two basic types of ecological succession, which are categorized mainly based on how many nutrients - or lack thereof - are already present in the soil after the disturbance. For instance, primary succession is succession that begins in an area where the soil has not yet formed. Examples of events that precede primary succession would be the formation of a new island by a volcanic eruption or the retreat of a glacier. Secondary succession is succession that begins after an event clears the community but leaves the soil intact. Examples of events that precede secondary succession would be wildfires and deforestation by clearcutting. Because the soil is intact when secondary succession begins, it often progresses much faster than primary succession, and, in fact, certain types of natural events, such as wildfires and floods, can add nutrients to the soil.
 - A good example of secondary succession can be seen after a fire in a chaparral ecosystem, which is a type of ecosystem characterized by dense, evergreen shrubs; mild, rainy winters; and hot, dry summers. Actually, chaparral is a type of biome, or one of the world's major ecosystem types, that is classified according to its predominant vegetation and climate. The predominant vegetation in a chaparral ecosystem consists of woody evergreen shrubs. Small annual plants are also common but can only grow and survive during the rainy winter months. When the weather becomes dry, the annual plants dry up and die, which leaves only the woody shrubs and the occasional evergreen tree as the only live plants in the summer. Typical animals found in chaparral ecosystems include deer, small rodents and birds, lizards, snakes, and, of course, insects. The soil in chaparral ecosystems is very poor and often very rocky.
 - The combination of the hot, dry summers and abundance of dry vegetation makes chaparral ecosystems prone to fires. In fact, chaparral plants and animals are typically adapted to periodic fires. Most of the animals retreat to underground burrows that are deep enough to be insulated from the extremely hot fires that burn the dense shrubs that typically contain very flammable oils in their leaves.
 - Unlike secondary succession, primary succession is never a fast process. Because primary succession always starts from scratch without a significant amount of soil or nutrients (and certainly without dormant roots or large numbers of seeds waiting for their chance to sprout), it takes a special type of organism to colonize and survive in the new habitat.
 - Let's use the example of a retreating glacier in Alaska to look at how primary succession occurs. When the glacier retreats from an area, it leaves mostly rocks and nutrient-poor dirt behind. The first organisms that colonize the new habitat and make up the pioneer community are mostly lichens and mosses.

