### Andrew Garber

### AP Environmental Science

### Chapter 28: Environmental Sustainability

#### 28.3: Sustainable Development

    - The World Commission on Environment and Development came out with a report in 1987 called 'Our Common Future.' This report is often referred to as the 'Brundtland Report' and is credited with coining the term 'sustainable development,' which is defined as development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs.
    - This sounds like a very responsible concept. Most people want to preserve all that is good in the natural environment, so their children and grandchildren can benefit from its rich resources. This also sounds like a very simple concept. If each human being only uses what he or she needs for survival, then the natural environment can keep giving back, and essentially humans and the environment can live in harmony for many generations to come.
    - However, the concept gets muddied when we consider the fact that life is not only about survival. There are economic and social needs that must be met and these needs impact the environment's ability to sustain itself. For example, if we look at the economy, we see that it is dependent on society for things such as labor and a market to exchange goods and services.
    - However, due to increasing social and economic demands, there are ever increasing demands placed on the environment that are stretching the environmental limits of our planet. Environmental limits can be defined as the point beyond which the environment exceeds its ability to provide essential resources.
    - An increasing demand that pushes the environment to its limit is the growing world population. The steadily increasing number of people that inhabit planet Earth presents a growing demand for goods and services from industry and business. This, in turn, leads to the depletion of natural resources and an increase in pollution, making it more difficult for the natural environment to sustain itself.
    - The growing population also demands more land be cleared to make room for living area and farmland. This results in an altering of previously undisturbed land, such as forests and wetlands. Forests are important ecosystems that provide habitats for biologically diverse plants and animals. Forests also play a role in the water cycle and climate stability. Wetlands are natural water filtration systems that remove pollutants flowing through them and provide humans with freshwater. When we go beyond these limits, we are not only harming the environment, but we are also harming ourselves.
    - It is also important to note that these limits aren't fixed, they can grow based on technology and human ingenuity. For example, the development of new technologies that allow us to use resources more efficiently can help us to stretch the limits of the environment.

#### 28.4: Sustainable Consumption

    - Sustainable consumption is the use of products and services in a way that minimizes the impact on the environment, so that human needs can be met not only in the present but also for future generations. When sustainable consumption is practiced, resources are used wisely and waste products and pollution are minimized. The main way this is achieved is by doing more and better with less. In other words, we can find ways to meet our needs and desires without depleting our planet's finite natural resources.
    - This might include carpooling, using renewable energy sources, such as solar or wind power, developing alternative fuel sources, such as biofuels, for our transportation needs and using environmentally friendly cleaning products. Practicing sustainable consumption can ensure that the environment has resources available long into the future. However, in most industrialized and developed nations, consumption patterns are not sustainable.
    - Their products and services rely on too many natural resources and create too many harmful emissions when consumed. For example, most developed countries rely on non-renewable fossil fuels for their transportation needs. As more drivers hit the roads and more fuel is consumed, fossil fuel reserves are depleted, and because fossil fuels emit greenhouse gases into the atmosphere when they are burned, more consumption means more pollution. This level of consumption cannot be sustained due to the depletion of the non-renewable resource and the adverse effects to the environment. Of course, unsustainable consumption patterns are not just a problem for developed countries, but also for many developing countries.
    - In developing nations, consumption patterns can be unsustainable because citizens of these countries may need to exploit their natural resources to meet their basic living needs. For example, subsistence farming, which is farming that provides only for the farmer's needs without surplus for the market, requires the clearing of woodlands to make room for farms and is one of the leading causes of deforestation. This can lead to environmental damage, such as soil erosion, drier climates and higher levels of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.
    - "We see that there are many complexities of sustainable consumption that need to be considered. For example, the consumption of goods drives a strong economy. However, unsustainable consumption patterns degrade the environment, deplete natural resources and hamper the ability of future generations to provide for their basic needs. Therefore, the goals of economic growth may conflict with the goals of sustainable consumption.'" - Study.com. This is only half true, economic growth is intrinsically linked to human well-being - Sustainability is a function of technology being applied to the environment, not a function of limiting economic growth.

#### 28.6: Environmental Health Definition

    - Environmental health involves understanding the impacts of environmental and human-made hazards and protecting human health and ecological systems against these hazards. This includes studying the impacts of human-made chemicals on wildlife or human health, as well as how the environment influences the spread of diseases.
    - Physical hazards are physical processes that occur naturally in the environment. These include natural disaster events such as earthquakes, tornadoes, volcanoes, blizzards, landslides, and droughts. Not all physical hazards are discrete events - some are ongoing, like ultraviolet radiation. UV radiation is considered a hazard because it damages DNA and can cause human health issues like skin cancer and cataracts.
    - Chemical hazards can be both natural and human-made chemicals in the environment. Human-made chemical hazards include many of the synthetic chemicals we produce, like disinfectants, pesticides and plastics. Some chemical hazards occur naturally in the environment, like the heavy metals lead and mercury. Some organisms even produce natural chemicals that are an environmental hazard, such as the compounds in peanuts and dairy that cause allergic reactions in humans.
    - Biological hazards come from ecological interactions between organisms. Viruses, bacterial infections, malaria, and tuberculosis are all examples of biological hazards. When these pathogens and diseases are transferred between organisms, it's called an infectious disease. We suffer from these diseases and pathogens because we're being parasitized by another organism, which, while hazardous, is also a natural process.
    - Cultural hazards, also known as social hazards, result from your location, socioeconomic status, occupation, and behavioral choices. For example, smoking cigarettes is hazardous to your health, and this is a behavioral choice. If you live in a neighborhood with lots of crime, this is a hazard based on your location. Similarly, your diet, exercise habits, and primary mode of transportation all influence your health and the health of the environment around you.
    - As you can see, environmental hazards can come from a variety of sources. While many hazards come from outdoor sources, indoor sources are especially important to understand because we spend so much of our time inside. Your home, office, and car are all part of your environment, and can all be sources of environmental hazards.
    - For example, radon gas is a very toxic indoor hazard. Radon is a colorless and odorless radioactive gas that seeps into homes from rocks, soil and water underneath. It is the second leading cause of lung cancer in the U.S., coming in just behind tobacco smoke.
    - Lead is another indoor environmental hazard. Lead is a toxic heavy metal that can cause damage to major organs like your brain, liver, kidneys and stomach. Lead is found in homes in old pipes and paint. When water passes through lead pipes, it contaminates the water and causes lead poising. Lead in paint is especially dangerous to children because babies and young children like to peel paint from walls and then eat or inhale the lead from the paint.

#### 28.7. Understanding and Assessing Threats to Environmental Health

    - When understanding environmental health, it's important to determine which substances and activities are most dangerous and which are safe. This is done through risk assessment, which is the measurement and comparison of the risk involved in an activity or substance. What this means is that problems are identified and then compared with the risk of other similar activities or substances. Risk assessment involves a number of different processes that all work together to determine the overall risk. Let's look at assessing risk for a chemical substance as an example.
    - In another lesson, we learned about the dose-response curve, which involves controlled laboratory experiments to understand the toxicity and effects of a substance. The tests involved in a dose-response study tell scientists how toxic a substance is, what effects it has on the organism and how much of the substance causes these effects.
    - Dose-response experiments are done on lab animals, so the information that scientists get from them have to be extrapolated to human-sized levels, which allows for safety standards to be set. The risk assessment from dose-response studies also takes into account how likely exposure is for a certain population, how often the exposure would be, the concentration of the exposure and the length of exposure time. So, in other words, for any given population the when, where, how much, how often and how long all goes into determining how risky an activity or substance is.
    - Epidemiology is a large-scale comparison among groups of people to determine causes, effects, and patterns in human disease. Epidemiological studies compare groups of people who have been exposed to a certain hazard to a group of people that has had no exposure. These studies often span long periods of time (some studies are decades long), and over that time, they measure any deaths or other health problems that occur. If there are higher rates of death or illness in the group exposed to the hazard, this tells scientists that the hazard is most likely the cause of the problem.
    - This is much like any other scientific experiment: one group is the control (the non-exposure group) and one is the experimental group (the hazard group). The difference is that epidemiologists do not purposefully expose people to hazards - they simply take advantage of the chance to learn from these exposures and hopefully prevent people from becoming sick in the future.
    - Once risk is assessed, that information has to go somewhere, right? Risk management is the next step, which is the decisions and strategies used to minimize the assessed risk. Risk management is often dealt with by government agencies. For example, in the U.S., we have the Environmental Protection Agency, Centers for Disease Control and Food and Drug Administration to manage risk for environmental threats and human health issues. Risk management is tricky because risk assessment is not the only factor that is considered. Economic, social and political issues also play into management decisions. Costs and benefits on all sides must be weighed, and quite often the benefits are easy to identify but costs may not be so easy to see. Additionally, economic benefits tend to outweigh health costs because they are immediate and easy to quantify.
