### Andrew Garber
### October 6 2023
### AP Environmental Science
### Chapter 6 - The Atmosphere and the Environment

#### 6.1 - The Atmosphere
 - The atmosphere is a thin layer of gases held to Earth by gravity.
 - It is made up of about 78% nitrogen, 21% oxygen, and 1% other gases.
 - 0.9% of that 1% is argon, and the rest is *EVERYTHING ELSE* - the greenhouse effect ic caused by that less than 0.1% of the atmosphere.
 - Some people have taken that small percentage to mean that it can't possibly cause the kind of catastrophic climate change that we're seeing today, but that's not true, because the greenhouse effect is a *feedback loop*.

#### 6.2. - Structure of the Atmosphere
 - There are four layers of the atmosphere:
   - The troposphere, which is the layer closest to the Earth's surface - it contains most of the atmosphere's mass and is where most of the weather occurs, and it extends about 14.5 kilometers
   - The stratosphere, which is the layer above the troposphere - it extends 40 kilometers past the troposphere
   - The mesosphere, which is the layer above the stratosphere - it extends 30-40 kilometers from the stratosphere
   - The thermosphere, which is the layer above the mesosphere - it extends more than 600 kilometers from the mesosphere


#### 6.4. Temperature, Clouds, Wind, Humidity
 - There are five factors that determine the state and condition of the atmosphere and, therefore, influence and determine the weather. They include:
    - temperature
    - air pressure
    - humidity
    - cloudiness
    - wind
 - The first of these air mass factors that determines weather is temperature. Temperature is the amount of heat contained in an object, in this case, the air. The amount of heat in the air determines the speed of the molecules in the air. The more heat, the faster the molecules move, raising the temperature. The heat in the atmosphere comes from the sun and varies at different levels in the atmosphere. The layers of the atmosphere are determined generally by their temperature. 
 - Air pressure is simply the amount of air that is pushing down on you from the atmosphere "on top" of you. That is why when you climb a mountain, you need air tanks.
 - The third factor that can determine the weather is if a place is experiencing humidity. Humidity is a measure of the water content of the air mass. The amount of moisture in the air can vary widely depending on the conditions. In the winter, air is generally cooler and drier, whereas in the summer when air is warmer, it can hold more moisture. That's what gives it that sticky, soupy feeling of a very humid day. The amount of moisture can be seen when it condenses as fog. A foggy morning occurs when the moisture in the air becomes cool enough to condense and form tiny drops in the air.
 - Clouds are simply tiny drops of water or ice that form in the atmosphere.
 - Finally, wind can be a factor determining weather, particularly its speed and direction. Wind is a process of movement of air that occurs due to the uneven heating of the Earth's surface. Different parts of the Earth heat at different rates depending on factors like the amount of water present, snow cover and vegetation. Areas that heat up faster have air that rises, and air from cooler regions moves in to replace it, causing wind. The bigger the temperature differential, the stronger the wind. This movement of air can move air masses and bring clouds or other weather-related factors with it. Wind speed is measured with an anemometer and is measured in miles per hour.


#### 6.5. Climate Classification 
 - Though no location on Earth will have exactly the same climate as another, many do have very similar climatic characteristics. In fact, these characteristics were first classified in 1884 by a Russian-German climatologist named Wladimir Köppen. Named after its founder, the Köppen Climate Classification system categorizes Earth's climates into five major groups based on the native vegetation present. He based his classification system on plants because he felt that they are the best representative of the local temperature, precipitation and other variables that contribute to climate.
 - Group A, our first climate classification, is also known as 'humid tropical.' This is what you would expect at the equator - a warm, wet climate. 
 - Group B is the next climate classification, one step away from the equator both north and south. This is also known as the 'dry' group because there is little moisture in the air here. Not surprisingly, we find the world's great deserts in this region, like the Sahara in Africa and the Great Victoria in Australia
 - Group C is our next classification, now two steps away from the equator. This group is also known as the 'humid middle latitude with mild winters' region. So, think of Group C for 'cold' since these regions do have winters (unlike Groups A and B). It's called humid because there's moisture in the air, middle latitude because it is about mid-way between the equator and the polar region (either north or south) and mild winters because while it may get cold and snowy, they are still fairly tolerable conditions. These areas have wonderful seasonal changes and occur in places like the central U.S., southern Europe and central South America.
 - Group D is our second to last classification, so we're getting pretty close to the poles now. While closer to the poles, we're still in somewhat middle latitudes here, and the air is still moist, but man, these winters really are cold! Think of places like northern Canada and Siberia and you'll likely understand why these get the 'severe winter' classification.
 - Our final group is Group E, the polar group.You can't go any farther than the poles! Like Group A, there's no seasonal change here but on quite the opposite end of the spectrum.

#### 6.6. Natural Factors that determine climate
 - There are many factors that can influence the climate of a region. One of the main things that determines the climate of an area is the circulation of air in the atmosphere. 
 - Air near the tropical regions rises as it gets heated, while cooler air near the poles sinks. Warmer air has more energy and is less dense than cooler air, which causes this rising and sinking action. However, the Earth's rotation also has an effect on this movement of air by breaking the rising and sinking action of air into six distinct sections. These bands alternate the direction of wind flow, much like the bands that are seen on Jupiter.
 - Another factor that influences climate is how the Earth distributes heat. Large bodies of water along with ocean currents greatly influence a region's climate by holding and redistributing heat through the water, adding moisture to the air and influencing the strength and direction of the wind. Ocean currents move heat around from areas that are warmer to areas that are cooler, adding energy and moisture to new regions. An example of ocean temperature's effect on our weather and climate is the El Niño effect that occurs in the Pacific. In El Niño, a band of water near the equator becomes warmer than normal and transfers extra heat, disrupting normal weather patterns. In the United States, this can cause warmer, drier winters with less snow in the northern states and more rain and cooler temperatures in the southern states.
 - The continents and landforms also influence climate. Mountain ranges, for instance, force air masses to change elevation. As air approaches the mountains, it rises and cools, forms clouds and releases much of its moisture as precipitation. This can be seen in clouds that are often surrounding the tops of mountains. Often, the higher the elevation, the more that precipitation occurs. This is known as the orographic effect. The orographic effect states that cooler air will hold less moisture than warmer air. On the opposite side, air can sink again, which allows it to warm and absorb moisture by producing fewer clouds, more sun and less precipitation. This drier side of a mountain range is known as rain shadow, or the dry area on the leeward, or backside, of a mountain. 

#### 6.7. Climate Change
 - Climate change is simply the change in the climate of our planet due to human activity. It is also known as global warming, though this term is a bit misleading. While the overall temperature of the planet is increasing, the weather variance may make specific years cooler than others in specific areas. 
 - The main cause of climate change is the greenhouse effect, as human emissions are increasing the amount of heat trapped in the atmosphere.

#### 6.8. Air Pollution
 - Air pollutants are gases and particles in the atmosphere that harm organisms and affect climate. Air pollution, then, is the release of these particles and gases into the air. 
 - No matter the source, there are two ways pollution can enter the air. Point source pollution is when the air pollutants come from a single source of origin, such as smokestacks at a single factory. Non-point source pollution is when the air pollutants come from many sources, such as all of the cars in the U.S.
 - Just like not all sources of pollution are the same, pollutants also vary in their effects. Primary pollutants are those that cause direct harm or that can react to form harmful substances in the atmosphere. Secondary pollutants are those harmful substances that are created from the reactions between primary pollutants and the components of the atmosphere.
 - Carbon monoxide is both odorless and colorless, and it's produced through combustion. Most carbon monoxide emissions come from vehicles, about 62%, but they also come from forest fires, lawn equipment and the burning of industrial waste. This pollutant is dangerous to human health because, even in very small concentrations, it can prevent oxygen from being delivered through your body to major organs. At higher levels, it can cause death.
 - Sulfur dioxide is also a colorless gas, and it's highly reactive. About 70% of sulfur dioxide emissions come from combustion at industrial power plants, like those that generate electricity from coal. Sulfur in the coal reacts with atmospheric oxygen in the air and forms the compound sulfur dioxide. Once in the air it may react further to create sulfur acid, which can fall back to Earth as acid rain. Sulfur dioxide can also cause respiratory illnesses when it's breathed in.
 - Nitrogen oxides are a family of gases that are also very reactive, but you can definitely see and smell these! Both nitric oxide and nitrogen dioxide are in this family, and these are the gases that contribute to the smog you see over large cities, like Los Angeles. More than half of these pollutants come from vehicle combustion emissions, with a large amount also coming from industrial combustion. 
 - Ozone is complicated because it is both really helpful when in the stratosphere, working to protect us from UV radiation, while also being harmful when lower down. 
 - Particulate matter is just what it sounds like, particles suspended in the air. This can be both liquids and solids, and about 60% of particulate matter pollution is wind-blown dust. The problem is that particulate matter can also be some of those harmful pollutants previously described, as well as toxic chemicals and metals.
 - Lead is a metal that is very toxic to humans, and it can cause damage to the nervous system, kidneys and reproductive system. It can also cause developmental problems in children. Lead is released into the air from the burning of fossil fuels, like coal, and it can also be released from industrial processes, like smelting.

#### 6.9. Controlling Air Pollution
 - Air pollution control legislation in developed nations leads to a reduction of emissions from a variety of sources. Individuals can reduce their energy use as well as invest in energy efficient technologies, such as high efficiency appliances and light bulbs. More than this, investment in low-carbon technologies, such as nuclear, solar, wind, and geothermal energy, can help reduce emissions from the energy sector.
 - In 1997, the Kyoto Protocol was developed to legally mandate the signing countries to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases from 2008-2012. In 2012, it was amended to include a new reduction target period of 2013-2020. This treaty was designed to ensure commitment to reduce air pollution from developed nations, who are the leading producers of such pollution. Despite being one of the world's most industrially developed nations, the U.S. is not a part of this agreement.
 - Developing nations experience air pollution from the same sources as developed ones. Industrial activities, transportation and burning of fossil fuels for energy all contribute to unclean air in these areas of the world. However, though there is significant legislation to control air pollution in developed countries, developing nations tend to lack this regulation. They do not have the same ability to enforce air quality standards because they lack the technological, governmental or economic resources to do so. You can't really blame them for this, as it is a reult of their trying to increase living standards for their people.

#### 6.10. Indoor Air Pollution
 - Indoor air pollution has a far greater impact on developing countries than it does on developed ones because fuel, such as wood, charcoal and animal dung, is burned inside homes for cooking and heating. Rarely is there proper ventilation to allow the pollutants to escape, so residents of these homes end up breathing in carbon monoxide and other dangerous contaminants.
 - In developed countries, the two most common causes of indoor air pollution are tobacco and radon. Even if you are not a smoker, secondhand smoke can cause many of the same health problems as directly inhaling from cigarettes - things like lung cancer, emphysema, asthma and heart disease. Even if inhaling secondhand, you are still taking in over 4,000 chemicals, a large number of which are carcinogens, or cancer-causing chemicals.
 - Radon gas is also harmful indoors, and it is the second-leading cause of lung cancer in the U.S. (tobacco smoke is the first). Radon gas is a radioactive gas that comes from the natural breakdown of uranium in soil, rock and water. When the uranium breaks down, the radon gas seeps up and can get into buildings. Radon is especially dangerous because it is both colorless and odorless, which makes it impossible to detect without special testing equipment.
 - In addition to tobacco and radon, volatile organic compounds (or VOCs) create a variety of pollutants in indoor air. VOCs are carbon-containing compounds that are released by pretty much anything you can imagine - perfume, paint, plastic, household cleaners, adhesives, furniture, carpet, paper…even that nice 'new car smell' is really just the smell of toxic chemicals being released!

#### 6.11. Greenhouse Gases
 - Greenhouse gases are gases in the atmosphere that allow sunlight to pass through and reach the Earth's surface. Some of this sunlight is captured as heat on Earth, and some of it is radiated back towards space. When greenhouse gases are present in the right amounts, they trap just enough heat to keep the Earth warm enough for organisms to survive, while letting some of that heat back into space. 
 - However, the rapid increase in greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere has led to the enhanced greenhouse effect, which is when too much heat is trapped on Earth, resulting in an overall increase in global temperatures.
 - Increasing global temperature will also lead to a rise in sea levels as the glaciers and polar ice caps melt. As sea levels rise, many organisms, such as polar bears, birds, fish and plants, will lose valuable habitats, and people will be forced to move farther inland. Industries, such as agriculture and forestry, will also be negatively affected by temperature changes, which could have worldwide consequences, such as food shortages and extreme land erosion.
 - Water vapor is the most abundant and possibly the most important greenhouse gas. Water vapor is not only very good at trapping heat on Earth but also amplifying the effects of other greenhouse gases. Water vapor does this through a vicious cycle: as the amount of water vapor increases in the atmosphere, the temperature on Earth increases as well, which then causes more water vapor absorption in the air, creating a vicious cycle of increasing temperatures.
 - Carbon dioxide is the most important greenhouse gas not because it is the most dangerous or most abundant but because it is the greenhouse gas that humans have the most control over.
 - The real worry though is how quickly CO2 is accumulating in the atmosphere. Since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution (about 1750), human activity has continually increased atmospheric CO2 levels from 280 parts per million to the current high. There is no other period in the history of Earth where CO2 levels have increased so quickly.
 - Methane is also rapidly increasing in the atmosphere. Methane is released into the air from fossil fuels and livestock. Atmospheric methane has increased 151% since the beginning of the Industrial Revolution and is currently at its highest concentration in at least 650,000 years.
 - Nitrous oxide is a gas that comes from feedlots, chemical manufacturing plants, emissions from vehicles and nitrogen fertilizers in agriculture. The level of nitrous oxide has increased about 18% since 1750, and while this number may seem small, think about this: the warming impact of one pound of nitrous oxide is over 300 times that of one pound of carbon dioxide!

