### Andrew Garber
### Nov 2
### Chapter 7: Wealther and Storms

#### 7.1 Weather vs. Climate
 - The difference between weather and climate is that weather is the day to day conditions of the atmosphere, while climate is the average weather conditions over a long period of time.

#### 7.2. Factors that influence wind
 -  As warm air rises, it expands and cools. It then sinks back down to fill the space the warm air left behind. This convection current, or circulation of warm air rising and cool air sinking, has some interesting effects on wind. Wind is horizontally moving air - so, any air that moves left to right instead of up and down.
 - [Science Schmience](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Sj4Dq3ebNrc)
 - Pressure gradients are formed when there is a difference in pressure between two areas, when it rises in one and area and falls in another. As the air cools, it sinks back towards the warmer equatorial regions, this difference is a pressure gradient. The force that drives the air from high pressure areas to low pressure areas is called the pressure gradient force.
 - But since Earth does spin on its axis, we get multiple circulations of wind on Earth. What's especially interesting is that this rotation of Earth affects the path of wind so that it appears to deflect to the right in the Northern hemisphere and to the left in the Southern hemisphere (if you're looking down from one of the poles). This deflection of wind from Earth's rotation is called the Coriolis Effect.
 - This can be seen in a myriad of demonstrations on the internet, but it boils down to this: due to the rotation of the earth, the air is deflected by the Coriolis effect. If you were to be spinning on a merry-go-round, and you were to throw a ball to someone else on the merry-go-round, the ball would appear to curve to the right (if you were spinning clockwise) and end up directly to the person you threw it to. 
 - This is what happens to wind on Earth. As Earth rotates, all free-moving objects, like air, water, airplanes and even snowballs, appear to leave their straight-line paths. Nothing is free from the Coriolis effect!
 - The Coriolis effect also differs depending on wind speed and latitude. When wind travels faster, it gets deflected more. Objects that are higher in latitude (so, closer to the Polar Regions) deflect more than those at the equator.


#### 7.3. Weather Variables
 - There are myriad variables that affect weather, but some of the most important are pressure, temperature, and density. 
 - Pressure is the force exerted by the weight of the air above. It is measured in millibars (mb) or inches of mercury (in Hg). The average pressure at sea level is 1013.2 mb or 29.92 in Hg.
 - Temperature is the measure of the average kinetic energy of the molecules in a substance. It is measured in degrees Fahrenheit (F), Celsius (C), or Kelvin (K). People like to argue about their favorite system of measurement. 
 - Density also plays a role. The denser the air is, the more molecules there are in that given space. Obviously, the denser the air, the more collisions there will be between molecules, and the more collisions, the more energy is transferred. 
 - Adiabatic processes come about when an air parcel changes temperature without any gain or loss of heat from outside the parcel of air. All of the previous factors come together in Adiabatic processes, and they are the reason why the temperature of the air changes as it rises and sinks. In addition, factors like gravity and the composition of the air also play a role in the temperature of the air. For example, because air has weight(obviously) it is desner the closer it is to the surface of the earth. This means that the air at the surface is warmer than the air at the top of the troposphere. More than this, the composition of the air also plays a role. Water vapor can absorb heat, and the hotter the air is, the more water vapor it can hold. This is why the air is more humid in the summer than in the winter.

#### 7.4. General Circulation In Atmosphere
 - The air at the equator is warmer than the air at the poles, so it rises straight up - and creates a low pressure area. This air then starts circulating horizontally, and as it does so, creates Hadley Cells.
 - As the air spreads horizontally, we find that it begins to cool even more around 30° N and S latitudes. When the air is cool enough, it starts to fall back towards Earth's surface, but as it falls, it warms. So, if hot air leaving creates low pressure, hot air coming in creates the opposite - high pressure.
 - Because of this, the falling air creates our next thin, windless strip called the horse latitudes. They were named this because, like the Doldrums, there is little wind to push ships along the ocean. Legend has it that when this happened, horses on board the ships were either eaten as food supplies went low or thrown overboard to reduce the load. These create dry, arid climates like the Sahara Desert and the Mojave Desert.
 - Some of the air heads back towards the equator as the warm, steady breezes of the trade winds, but much of it keeps heading toward the poles, creating our next cell, the Ferrel cell. The winds that blow towards the poles and create the Ferrel cells are the westerlies, which you can remember because they come from the west and blow to the east.
 - When the warm, moist westerlies reach about 60° N and S (twice the latitude as our other thin, windless strip), they meet up with the cold, dry polar easterlies, which, as you have probably guessed, blow from the east. The polar easterlies make up our third and final circulation cell, the polar cell, and where the polar cell and the Ferrel cell meet is called the polar front. Here, just like at the equator, air rises vertically, and that leaving air creates an area of low pressure.

#### 7.5. Types of Air Masses
 - Weather is controlled by a variety of factors. One of the most important is Earth's air masses. Air masses are huge parcels of air with specific characteristics. What's interesting about the characteristics of an air mass is that, not only do they describe the air mass, but they also tell you where you can find that air mass on Earth.
 - If the air mass is found over land, this is a continental air mass. If the air mass is found over water, this is a maritime air mass. 
 - Arctic air masses occur over arctic regions, like Greenland and Antarctica. Polar air masses occur a little bit farther from the poles, like in Siberia, Canada and the northern Atlantic and Pacific Oceans. Finally, tropical air masses occur in the tropics, so along the equator and over Mexico and the Southwest U.S.
 - Maritime air masses are going to produce moist weather because they come from water. Continental air measses are going to produce dry weather because they come from land. 
 - One way that air can move vertically is through convectional lifting. Convection is the cyclical process of warm air rising and cool air sinking. 
 - If there is moisture in the air, it creates a cumulus cloud when it rises. These are the big, fluffy clouds you can identify different shapes and objects in. As the air sinks, the cloud dissipates, which is what creates all that empty sky between cumulus clouds. Think about it - you usually see a bunch of cumulus clouds in the same area, but not one large, continuous one.
 - Another way that air masses affect weather is when the air is lifted up over an obstacle, like a mountain. This type of lifting is called orographic lifting. Orographic lifting is responsible for the different weather conditions you see on opposite sides of a mountain. As the air rises up over the mountain, it cools and expands, and any moisture in the air is pushed out.

#### 7.6. Understanding Weather Fronts
 - Weather fronts act just like the front line of an army. Fronts are contact zones between two different air masses, and you can think of the air masses as the advancing armies, just with different pressure, density, temperature and moisture. And just like there's conflict between the battling armies, air masses 'battle' along fronts, creating changes in weather conditions. 
 - A cold front is the contact boundary of an advancing cold air mass over a stationary warm air mass. Conversely, a warm front is the contact boundary of an advancing warm air mass over a stationary cold air mass. This makes sense - the front is described by the type of air mass winning the 'fight.'
 - A stationary front is just what it sounds like: When neither air mass is advancing over the other. They are both stationary, and so is the front - the armies are at a stalemate. Finally, an occluded front is when a cold front overtakes a warm front. This happens because cold fronts move faster than warm fronts, so they catch up to them and overtake them.
 - Weather fronts advanced forward, creating weather changes and frequently even violent storms. The type of weather that fronts create depends on the type of front and the type of air masses involved.
 - Thunderstorms are common along cold fronts. This is because when a cold front occurs from a cold air mass moving into a warm air mass, the warm air is forced upward. When warm air rises, it cools, and since cool air can't hold as much moisture as warm air, the water in the air gets forced out, which is what creates clouds. Since the air is moving straight up, it forms a vertical cloud, which leads to thunderstorms along the front.
 - Along warm fronts, storms are less intense and more drawn out. This is because the warm air moving in over the cold air rises gradually instead of quickly. Along the front, expect overcast skies and drizzle or light rain. Behind the front, the air will be warm and clouds will be pretty scattered.

#### 7.7. Tornadoes
 - Tornadoes are dangerous events. These storms can be several miles wide and have wind speeds as fast as 300 mph! They have indiscriminate and unpredictable travel routes and act like giant vacuum cleaners picking up everything in their paths.
 - Tornadoes form from thunderstorm clouds, which form when warm, wet air rises very quickly. As it rises, the cool air condenses into a large cumulus cloud. Like adding fuel to a fire, more rising warm air builds the cloud larger and larger. Eventually, the water in the cloud falls back to the ground as rain. As it falls, it brings some of that cooler air back down with it.
 - The warm air rising is called an updraft (because it's traveling upward), and the cool sinking air is called a downdraft (since it's falling back down to the ground). When these two work together like this, they create a storm cell.
 - Some thunderstorms stay like this, but some grow even larger and become supercells. But a tornado doesn't begin to form until the air starts to spin. Scientists are not exactly sure how this happens, but it seems that one way this is possible is when winds at different altitudes within the supercell travel at different speeds.
 - Tornado Alley exists because the Great Plains get very hot in the summer. Updrafts are all too common, which as we now know creates thunderstorms and supercells. Florida is also well-known for its frequent tornadoes for this very same reason. Florida has more thunderstorms than any other state in the country, and all that warm, moist air creates the perfect conditions for supercells and tornadoes to form.

