Liberal democratic societies are unique in that they, as states and as societies, allow their citizens the freedom to choose how they will live their lives within, including how they will live their political lives in relation to the state. This freedom raises questions about what constitutes good citizenship when the state does not implicitly demand certains actions or emotions to prove a level of good citizenship in the same way that authoritarian states do. Three key questions fundamentally underpin the range of what constitutes good citizenship. The first concerns the degree of civic participation that should be expected of a true, good citizen. Constant's conception of modern liberty, where the private sphere is a realm of self-expression and self-fulfillment, and political participation is a matter of individual choice is clearly most aligned with fundamental liberal democratic principles. The second considers cultural obligations: Massey's pluralism wherein the chosen cultural traditions of individuals are not required to be the same as the majority, requiring only commitment to the liberal principles of the society at large, including tolernace of other cultures. The final question regards the individual emotions that should be felt towards the state where Appiah's cosmopolitanism is closest to the mark but does not go far enough, as citizens should have no obligation to feel anything towards the state itself on principle, but only towards the principles of the state and the society. Insofar as the state is exemplary of its liberal foundational principles, it is good, and citizens should deservedly feel gratitude towards the principles and transitively towards the state for being an image of them, but no greater feelings are obligatory on behalf of the citizenry.

The conception of liberty within the state significantly determines the degree of civic participation that should be expected of a true, good citizen. In Aristotle's _Politics_, his conception of liberty is one that considers the citizen as merely a component element of the state, and thus exercising his highest good through the state, "What effectively distinguishes the citizen proper from all others is his participation in giving judgement and inholding office. Some offices are distinguished in respect of length of tenure ... we therefore define citizens as those who participate this (Aristotle, 169-170)." While it can be reasonably claimed that this is divorced from the principles of modern liberal democracies, it was the core of French Revolutionary thought, which proclaimed a collective liberty that was to be exercised through the state. This cannot be called liberal in any true sense, as it demands participation in the state as a condition of citizenship, and thus subordinates the individual to the collective who's potential actions against the individual are not limited as they are supposedly justified by being of the collective. The collective is not an agent, and thus cannot be held responsible for its actions - without this fundamnetal backstop, it cannot be said that Aristotle's conception of liberty is liberal in any true sense. Benjamin Constant's _Liberty of the Ancients and Moderns_ clearly articulates the failures of this conception of liberty and its associated obligations, "consisted in exercising collectively, but directly, several parts of the complete sovereignty; in deliberating, in the public square, over war and peace; in forming alliances with foreign governments; in voting laws, in pronouncing judgements; in examining the accounts ... But if this was what the ancients called liberty, they admitted as compatible with this collective freedom the complete subjection of the individual to the authority of the community. No importance was given to individual independence, neither in relation to opinions, nor to labour, nor, above all, to religion. (Constant 311)." The principle of liberalism is one of individualism, where one must decide for themselves the facets of their life they determine to be meaningful and good - any expectation or requirement of participation in the public sphere by the State runs counter to the Liberal principles of the State

A specific case of this is whether the citizens of a liberal democracy have a moral obligation to participate in the state through voting. Jason Brennan's _Ethics of Voting_ exemplifies this moral separation between the individual and the state, "Private actions can be good for the polity, and one can compensate for a lack of direct public service through socially beneficial private actions ... Consider, as a hypothetical case, Phyllis the Physician. Phyllis is a genius. She produces new medical breakthroughs hourly. Society may want Phyllis to contribute to the common good but not by taking time away from medicine ... And if Phyllis is public-spirited, she probably will not waste her time with politics. She would do more good by spending that time on medicine instead. (Brennan 53)." Brennan argument is coincident with the foundational principles of liberalism in that the individual can calculate for themselves what actions are good for the polity and for themselves and thus can choose to participate or not - putting aside any claims of the common good, Phyllis is herself happier, more purposeful, and more virtuous by performing her private actions that _happen_ to be good for the society than performing a public action due to some obligation. More than this, if she was unhappy voting she might do so in an uninformed, unreflective way, and thus be worse off thrice over by having done something she didn't want to do, in a way that was not good for her, all while not doing the good she could have done. Thus, the only obligation a liberal democratic state can have of its citizens is that they calculate for their own happiness, as any other obligation would violate the foundational principles of liberalism - when this includes actions in the public sphere for one of its citizens, it is only because it is meaningful and virtuous for them.

The question of whether citizens have specific cultural obligations to their society is a straightforward one when the core principles of liberalism are held dear. Samuel Huntington's _The Hispanic Challenge_ argues that Mexican immigration poses a threat to American identity and culture and could lead to a "de facto split" between a Spanish-speaking and an English-speaking United States, "The impact of Mexican immigration on the United States becomes evident when one imagines what would happen if Mexican immigration abruptly stopped ... The wages of low-incoe U.S.. citizens would improve. Debates over the use of Spanish and whether English should be made the official language of state and national governments would subside. Bilingual education and the controversies it spawns would virtually disappear, as would controversies over welfare and other benfits for immigrants ... The inflow of immigrants would again become highly diverse, creating increased incentives for all immigrants to learn English and absorb U.S. culture. And most important of all, the possiblity of a de facto split between a predominantly Spanish-speaking United States and an English-speaking United States would dissapear (Huntington 32-33)." Huntington attempts to dodge the fundamentally illiberal nature of his claim (to a degree, though his argumetn is comfortably illiberal in many ways) by saying that previous immigrants assimilated to various degrees, and thus that they are not now to whatever threshold makes it a special case. The root of his arugment is challenged by Douglas Massey in his _The Real Hispanic Challenge_, saying, "The marginalization of Hispanics has thus been created by aggressive border enforcement and deportation policies. It is no coincidence that trends in Hispanic poverty and income, after occupying a middle position between blacks and whites for many years, have recently fallen to converge on the low level historically occupied by African Americans (see the article by Mattingly and Pedroza in this issue). It is no coincidence that Mexicans in new immigrant destinations, where undocumented migrants predominate, are relatively more disadvantaged compared with those in old destinations (Massey 6)." Massey denies the illiberal claim that the State can justifiably demand any degree of assimilation from its citizens, and that the comparatively lack of natural assimilation among the Hispanic immigrant population is resultant from state action, not because of a lack of it. Liberal societies are based on allowing individuals to express themselves in ways that make them happy, any expectations or requirement of cultural assimilation is anathema to this - the only justifiable cultural expectation is a principled one of acceptance and respect for others who are different, and an endorsement of the foundational liberal principles of the society.

Finally, the question of what a citizen should feel towards their state is one that principally questions the sort of relationship a citizen should have with their state. The combined liberal cosmopolitanism of Kwame Anthony Appiah is close to the mark, but does not go far enough. Appiah argues that we should give our states respect and gratitude in so far as they hold themselves inline with liberal principles of diversity and tolerance, saying, "A liberal cosmopolitanism of the sort I am defending might put point like this: we value the variety of human forms of social and cultural life; we do not want everybody to become part of a homogeneous global culture; and we know that this means that there will be local differences (both within and between states) in moral climate as well. As long as these differences meet certain general ethical constraints as long, in particular, as political institutions respect basic human rights we are happy to let them be (Appiah, 621)." Appiah is correct in that the State should be judged by the principles it upholds and that tolerance and diversity are goods derived from the principles of liberalism, but this does not go far enough. His claim for the existence of separate nations is based on ensuring diversity, that a world-state would inhernetly become homogenous, but in a world-state based on liberal principles, there is no reason to believe that it would be so - individuals would be free to culturally express themselves as they please as long as it does not subvert the liberal principles of the state. This fault means that those who live in illiberal states would be denied this potential diversity, and further implies a specific loyalty to an individual state instead of a loyalty to liberal principles. If the state consistently upholds liberal principles and does not undertake actions contrary to them (examples abound, but the Patriot Act is a particularly egregious example) then feelings of gratitude and respect may arise in the citizenry, but these emotions are earned, not owed, and cannot be compelled nor expected. This aligns with Locke's assertion that citizens retain the right to withdraw their consent and allegiance if the state fails to uphold these principles: 'the obligation any one is under, by virtue of such enjoyment, to submit to the government, begins and ends with the enjoyment; so that whenever the owner, who has given nothing but such a tacit consent to the government, will, by donation, sale, or otherwise, quit the said possession, he is at liberty to go and incorporate himself into any other common-wealth' (Locke 65). In the end, individuals in a liberal democratic systmem should hold primarily loyalty to the principles that make their freedoms possible, and may wish to express their pleasure and gratitude towards their state when they adhere to them - however, when the State acts contrary to them it is deserving of no pro-forma devotion but critical scrutiny and effort to redress the harm.
