Schumpeter wants us to understand modern democracy in the context of a wide variance in the individual aims of citizens, and even in a situation where the aggregated aims of individuals are "calculated" and averaged this would still not constitute a general will that the whole body of the state could act in the direction of. Instead, his model of the nature of modern democracy is primarily one of a competitive method of arriving at political decisions relative to the power and influence of various groups with differing aims. Despite this competitive nature, Schumpeter's model of democracy does not consider the individual voter to be of some ideal nature, instead, he sees the individual voter as a mere consumer of the political market - susceptible to propaganda in the same way that consumers are susceptible to advertising. He says this quite clearly in how he connects it back to his polemic against the "general will", saying, "I will therefore repeat that even if the opinions and desires of individual citizens were perfectly definite and independent data for the democratic process to work with, and if everyone acted on them with ideal rationality and promptitude, it would not necessarily follow that the political decisions produced by that process from the raw material of those individual volitions would represent anything that could in a convincing sense be called the will of the people (Schumpeter, p.254)." From this quote, we can see that Schumpeter's model of democracy is one that denies the existence of a general will and instead focuses on the fulfillment of the private, specific aims of individual voters even while those aims are largely affected by the political market.

The implications of this theory of citizenship on the individual voter are essentially a reflection of the reality of the current Western world. The political market is a reality in the current Western World, significantly accelerated by the ever-growing mass media focusing on the political world for profit. Informed citizens do still exist, as they did in Schumpeter's model, those minorities who genuinely hold their views and are as minimally swayed by the political market as possible--something impossible to remove oneself from totally--but they are still a minority. I am generally satisfied with this model of democracy, as it provides for the principle of individual liberty in achieving one's own aims through or outside of the political sphere. An individual can vote for their own aims, and a competitive method of arriving at political decisions, even if not one of one's own beliefs, is better than the alternative of a totality of those you don't agree with. Further, the model of democracy that Schumpeter presents is one that does not consider the political sphere to be all-encompassing due to his rejection of the "general will" and instead allows for the individual citizen to have a role in both the political and private spheres.
