Of the most pressing political issues of our time, immigration has taken up the most space in the media and in the public consciousness. This is a fundamental issue of public policy, without strict ideological lines dividing the two sides. Michael Huemer enters this debate with his article “Is there a right to immigrate?”, in which he takes a fairly strict libertarian stance on the issue that fundamentally challenges a state's right to substantively restrict the free movement of people.

Huemer effectively makes his argument by first establishing that the state has _some_ right to restrict immigration, in so far as it has a right to protect its own citizens from harm: terrorists, criminals, those carrying contagious diseases, and so on. This however, is the first order limit of the state's right to restrict immigration, as he argues that the state _prima facie_ cannot restrict immigration without violating the individual rights of the immigrants. He makes this argument suscinctly and convincingly using a series of thought experiments about two people, Marvin and Sam, the simplest of which being, "Marvin is in desperate need of food ... Fortunately, he has a plan to remedy the problem: he will walk to the local marketplace, where he will buy bread. Assume that in the absence of outside interference, this plan would succeed: the marketplace is open, and there are people there who are willing to trade food to Marvin in exchange for something he has. Another individual, Sam, is aware of all this and is watching Marvin. For some reason, Sam decides to detain Marvin on his way to the marketplace, forcibly preventing him from reaching it. As a result, Marvin returns home empty-handed, where he dies of starvation (Huemer, p.431-432)." This, Huemer argues, makes Sam the aggressor against Marvin and thus bearing morally responsibility for Marvin's death. Further, even if death had not been in the outcome, Sam is still commiting an act of harm against Marvin to whatever degree without a moral justifiable reason(self-defense, etc) to do so, and thus any befalment of harm against Marvin is placed squarely on Sam's shoulders.

This thought experiment, expanded upon to cover a number of possible objections, is analogous in Huemer's view to the State(Sam) preventing an individual(Marvin) from exercising their right to immigrate(buy bread). In his view, the United States government(and States in the world more generally) is currently violating the prima facie right of immigrants to seek the better life they desire by not allowing them to immigrate to the United States. The objection I find most interesting is one that he links to the Nozickean theory of justice, that, "in refusing entry to potential immigrants, merely fails to confer a benefit, or that it merely allows a harm to occur, rather than actually harming the potential immigrants. On some views, individuals have a right not to be harmed in certain ways, but no right to positive assistance (Huemer, p.434)." Huemer argues that this argument places blame where none is due - the state in his thought experiment did not iniate the harm against Marvin(the lack of food in his original state), but is nonetheless perpetrating a harm by preventing that person from solving their problem. Further, the good that the immigrant would get from the United States is _separate_ from the agentic action of the State, "The way the government harms potential immigrants is by excluding them from a certain physical area, and thereby effectively excluding them from interacting in important and valuable ways with people (other than the government itself) who are in that region (Huemer, p.435)." The separation of the good provided by the general society from the actions of the State is a critical point, one that recognizes that not only is a harm being perpetrated against the immigrant in this case, but that a harm is also being perpetrated against the citizens of the society by their state by denying them the benefits of the immigrant's presence: labor, consumption, culture, etc, and all at great expense to the citizens of the society.

Huemer's argument is one I am strongly inclined to agree with in its current form, but I do not believe it goes far enough. His argument is working from an anti-state perspective, in that denying rights to the states axiomatically grants them to the people, but I think that a far more sweeping conception of the rights of the individual(though not necessary to satisfy the conditions of the argument) can be made from his foundation. Huemer makes his argument without calling from an established tradition directly, but instead uses general reasoning by analogy, "Thus, I do not assume utilitarianism, contractarianism, libertarian rights theory, liberal egalitarianism, nor any general account of harm or rights. Nor do I assume the negation of any of those theories. Instead, I aim to rest conclusions on widely shared ethical intuitions about relatively specific cases. The method is to describe a case in which nearly everyone will share a particular, clear intuitive evaluation of some action, and then to draw a parallel from the case described to some controversial case of interest (Huemer, p.431)." This allows him to make his limited argument about the state's right to restrict immigration, but without direct connection to a greater theory of liberalism it would be difficult to make greater claims about the fundamental rights of the individual, nor for the conclusion to win in a "political market" of ideas.

Locke's Social Contract Theory, based on the state of nature in which total equality is the functional relative stature of all individuals, provides a comprehensive framework in which to situate a larger argument about the rights of the individual. In Locke's conception, the reason for the formation of the formation of a state is to ensure the protection of the natural rights of the individuals(which he considers total in the state of nature, just without means of protection), "that civil government is the proper remedy for the inconveniences of the state of nature ... where men may be judges in their own case ... and if government is to be the remedy of those evils, which necessarily follow from men being men's judges in their own case, and the state of nature is not to be endured, I desire to know what kind of government that is (Locke, p.12)." Necessarily to empower one to judge cases of conflict over the contraversion between the rights of different individuals, the state must be given a degree of power to enforce its judgements, however in no way does this confer _total_ sovereignty over individuals to the state.

This then turns into a question of what is the threshold at which sufficinet individual rights are given up to the state in order to ensure the protection of the remaining rights. Locke is fairly clear on this point, arguing that individuals give up the right to be the enforcer of their own rights(in most cases, things like self-defense remain) but that the fundamental rights of life, liberty, and property are not surrendered. These are the foundational pillars of the social contract, and at a greater level, the liberal tradition in a general sense. Freedom of movement is not specifically mentioned, but it exists within all three of those stated, but in the concept of liberty most strongly - in the liberal tradition was defined best by Ludwig von Mises as "Liberty is always freedom from the government. It is the restriction of the government’s interference. It prevails only in the fields in which the citizens have the opportunity to choose the way in which they want to proceed (Mises, Liberty and Property)," this conception of liberty would allow for a strict prima facie freedom of movement for all individuals, subsuming Huemer's argument about the right to immigrate.

In conclusion, Huemer's argument for a prima facie right to immigrate is a strong one, and makes the case for the state's active role in violating fundamental rights both of those immigrating and of the citizens of the society who would provably benefit from the presence of the immigrants. However, the argument can be expanded more broadly to an even greater right of the individual to move as they see fit, and that state's lack any right to restrict this right - more than just a simple extension of Huemer's argument, this greater right encompases Huemer's argument as a special and specific case. This greater right is one that leads to a more complete and comprehensive conception of the individual's rights, more in line with the greater liberal tradition, and one that I believe would compete more effectively in a "political market" against those who claim that citizenship/existence within a state is an exclusive right that is determined by the political nature of the state.
