### Andrew Garber

### Physical Education

### 2023-2024 Gym Plan

Andrew Garber's Physical Education plan for the 2023-2024 school year is designed to both ensure mental and physical well-being as a function of vigorous exercise and continuous improvement, as well as to provide a foundation for a lifetime of physical fitness and health. The exact specifics of the plan are as follows:

Strength training was chosen as the primary focus of the plan due to its ability to increase muscle mass, improve bone density, and increase metabolism, as well as being more enjoyable for Andrew than other forms of exercise. Hypertrophy, or muscle growth, is the primary goal of the strength training plan, with the secondary goal of increasing general strength and cardiovascular endurance. Specific cardiovascular training like running or biking was included to balance out the strength training and improve overall fitness.

- Day 1: Chest and Back Strength Training

  - Stretching and Warm-up.
  - Incline Bench Press: 4 sets of 6-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set, with the goal of increasing weight each set. Incline to target upper-chest, and to prevent shoulder injury.
  - Chest-Flies: 3 sets of 8-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set.
  - Lateral Pull-Downs: 4 sets of 6-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set, with the goal of increasing weight each set. Done with lifting straps to prevent grip failure, and a wider than shoulder-width grip to target the lats.
  - Sitting Cable Rows: 3 sets of 8-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set. Targeting the middle back.

- Day 2: Legs + Abs Strength Training

  - Stretching and Warm-up.
  - Leg Press: 4 sets of 6-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set, with the goal of increasing weight each set. Done with feet slightly wider than shoulder width, and at the bottom of the platform to target the quads.
  - Seated Leg Extensions: 4 sets of 8-12 reps aiming for failure on the last two sets. Done with a slower tempo to increase time under tension maximally.
  - Seated Leg Curls: 3 sets of 8-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set. Done with a slow eccentric phase to target the hamstrings.
  - Calf Raises: 3 sets of 12-20 reps aiming for failure on the last set.
  - Weighted Sit-ups: 4 sets of 15-25 reps. Done with a weight between chest and chin to ensure no movement of the neck. Weight increasing every set.

- Day 3: Shoulders + Biceps + Triceps + Forearms Strength Training

  - Stretching and Warm-up.
  - Sitting Smith Machine Overhead Press: 4 sets of 6-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set, increasing weight until last two sets.
  - Lateral Raises: 4 sets of 12 reps aiming for failure before 12 reps on the last set. Done with dumbbells simulatenously on both sides to prevent shoulder injury and minimize muscle imbalance.
  - Cable Overhead Tricep Extension: 4 sets of 12-15 reps aiming for failure on the last set. Done with a v-bar attachment to target the long head of the tricep.
  - Standing Barbell Curls: 4 sets of 6-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set. Done with a shoulder-width grip to target the biceps, and adding slight forward swing to focus the inner bicep head.
  - Cable Reverse Curls: 3 sets of 8-12 reps aiming for failure on the last set. Done with a slow eccentric phase to target the forearms.

- Day 4: Cardiovascular Training

  - Start with 5 minutes of stretching and warm-up.
  - Began with running 15 minutes, then 5 minute break, then 10 minutes, then 5 minute break, then 5 minutes. Overtime increase running time and decrease break time.
  - Finished with 5 minutes of stretching and cool-down.

- Day 5: Rest
  - Resisted specific rest days for a long time, but have found that they are necessary for recovery and growth, as well as prevention of injury.
