### Andrew Garber
### May 18 2023
### 1871 to 1914

#### Friederich Nietzsche
 - Nietzsche was born in 1844 in Röcken bei Lützen, a small town that was then part of the Prussian Empire in Saxony (modern-day Germany). Propitiously born on the same day as the Prussian King Friedrich Wilhelm IV, Nietzsche was named after his monarch.
 - Despite the good fortune that coincidence should have dictated, Nietzsche's early life was fraught with tragedy. His father, a local Protestant minister, died when Nietzsche was only five years old. His younger brother died six months later. Without his father's connection to Röcken as the town minister, Nietzsche and his mother moved in with Nietzsche's maternal grandmother and aunts in Naumberg an der Saale.
 - At 14, Nietzsche received a scholarship to attend a prestigious boarding school, originally intent on following his father and most of the men in the family by becoming a clergyman. He continued on this track after he graduated from boarding school, entering the University of Bonn in 1864 to study theology and philology. As his studies continued, however, he became more interested in philology and eventually dropped studying theology entirely.
 - As Nietzsche matured, he began writing papers and articles analyzing ancient texts. He became close friends with the composer Richard Wagner and entered into the elite intellectual circles of 19th-century Germany. He also spent an abortive year in the Prussian military where he gravely injured himself, allowing him to return to his university studies quicker than expected.
 - In 1872, he published his first work: The Birth of Tragedy, Out of the Spirit of Music. In it, Nietzsche identified certain factors within the human personality which make it impossible for man to adequately enjoy himself in modern society.
 - These 'Dionysian' energies, as he termed them, are naturally self-destructive and usually unconscious impulses the person has little control over. Over time, according to Nietzsche, these impulses have been contained by a societal tendency to encourage sobriety and rational thinking. This attempt at control, Nietzsche claimed, was unhealthy for both the body and mind - a superficial order imposed upon a naturally chaotic existence. Nietzsche continued this fight against what he considered unnatural order throughout his intellectual works. In his three-part 1883-1884 work, Thus Spoke Zarathustra, A Book for All and None, Nietzsche attacked the existing religious order and the values it had imposed upon contemporary society. According to Nietzsche, the ideal, virtuous man as preached by the Judeo-Christian world is irrelevant to reality as he is never found in the world.
 - Nietzsche rejected the religious idealism of yearning to be good in God's eye because he claimed God - if he ever existed at all - removed himself from the world soon after its creation. Longing for an idealism that did not exist was counterproductive to realizing man's actual potential. Indeed, according to Nietzsche, because nothing existed beyond this world, pain, suffering, and distress were not something to be endured in the hope of a better life in the next world but the features of this world that let us know we are truly alive.
 - While Thus Spoke Zarathustra was highly controversial in its day, arguably his most influential work was published in 1901 after his death. Based on his notes collected by his sister Elisabeth, the work The Will to Power continued to influence anti-idealists and existential philosophers throughout the 20th century. Whereas Thus Spoke Zarathustra was riddled with self-reflection and literary devices that made Nietzsche's purpose and meaning rather vague at times, The Will to Power was his anti-idealist and nihilist ethos masterfully laid out.
 - In it, Nietzsche rejected any law, code, or philosophy that had been artificially imposed upon humanity, namely the doctrines of Christianity. When a man achieves the ability to shirk these artificial constructs, he is no longer just a man, according to Nietzsche, but what he terms as a 'superman.' The highly theoretical work also posits that reality itself may not exist at a deeper level than what we see, and that the only thing certain to exist is the differences between objects and the endless push and pull between unnatural laws and our inner nature.
 - *My Personal Opinion On Nietzsche's Philosophy* I think his philosophy, specifically that of the ubermench, is extremely compatible with that of the Stoics in their drive for self-improvement - despite Nietzsche's outward disdain for Stoic Philosophy. 

#### Freud
 - Freud described two types of instincts. Life instincts are one motivational drive described by Freud. Freud also uses the term libido, or sexual energy, for life instincts. Life instincts serve the purpose of survival and encourage growth, development, and creativity. Freud considers all pleasurable acts life instincts. Death instincts are another type of motivational drive described by Freud. Death instincts account for our aggressive tendencies. Freud believed that managing this aggression is a major challenge of human nature.
 - Freud took his theories on personality and used them to form a developmental theory. He called this theory psychosexual development. Freud postulates five stages of chronological development that begin in infancy. These stages are oral, anal, phallic, latency, and genital. Key developmental tasks are characteristic of each stage. Freud believed the first three stages are the most important. These three stages occur before the age of six and form the foundation for personality development.

