### Andrew Garber
### March 16
### 18th Century Powers

#### Balance of Power
 - The last Habsburg king of Spain, Charles II, died in 1700. He left no heirs, and because he had been greatly influenced by France, he willed his throne to Philip, the duke of Anjou, a Frenchman. This didn't set well with the Habsburg Leopold I of Austria, who had his eye on the throne for his son. France's Louis XIV supported Philip, who was his grandson. Before long, France and Austria found themselves in the midst of a war over who would sit on the Spanish throne.
 - Other countries quickly joined in. Great Britain and Prussia both sided with Austria. They didn't care for France's ambition. Spain actually allied with France. The Spanish people were perfectly willing to accept Philip as their king.
 - The War of the Spanish Succession lasted from 1701 to 1714 and was finally settled by the Treaties of Utrecht and Baden. Philip was allowed to remain on the throne, but he had to give up his place in French succession. Great Britain, which ducked out of the war a bit early, won some territory and a valuable contract to supply slaves to Spain. Austria received the Netherlands as a consolation prize, and Prussia's Frederick II received the title of king.
 - A shaky peace prevailed among the four major players until 1740, when Maria Theresa ascended to the Austrian throne. Frederick of Prussia saw a prime opportunity to grab some Austrian territory that he had had his eye on for quite some time, and his army marched into Silesia at the end of 1740. Maria Theresa wasn't about to accept that. She raised an army and set out to fight, and the War of the Austrian Succession began.
 - The two combatants were soon joined by allies. France sided with Prussia, while Great Britain, which was already at war with Spain over trade conflicts, supported Austria. Maria Theresa managed to save most of her Austrian lands, but no matter what she tried, she couldn't force Frederick out of Silesia. The 1748 Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle confirmed Frederick's possession of Silesia and Maria Theresa's retention of her other traditional territories, but it left the Austrian monarch smoldering for revenge and did nothing to decrease the ever-growing tension between Britain and France.
 - This war put Prussia on the map as a near first-rate power in European politics, and fortified the ever militarized culture of Prussia. In the words of Voltaire, "While most states have an army, the Prussian army has a state."
 - Not surprisingly, war broke out again only eight years later in 1756. Frederick knew how badly Maria Theresa wanted Silesia back, but he wasn't about to let her have it. The Austrian monarch had recently made an alliance with her former enemy, France, and another deal with Russia for 80,000 troops. Frederick decided that he had better not wait any longer, and he made a preemptive strike into Saxony, between Prussia and Austria, on August 29, 1756, thus beginning the Seven Years' War.
 - Frederick found himself in a tight spot. He was surrounded by enemies, and his ally, Great Britain, was providing only monetary support. When Russia suddenly backed off, the Prussian king was able to win some stunning victories, but his triumph soon turned to near despair when the Russians returned. In the end, the 1763 Treaty of Hubertusburg allowed Frederick to keep Silesia, actually strengthened Prussia (which was now allied with the fickle Russia), and weakened Austria in the European balance of power.
 - Meanwhile, Britain was busy fighting France, especially in North America, where the conflict was called the French and Indian War. Britain started off strong with several naval victories that prevented a French invasion. The British then proceeded to snatch the French Canadian towns of Louisbourg, Quebec, and Montreal. They also swept through French colonies in the West Indies and captured a French base in India. Finally, the 1763 Treaty of Paris allowed Britain to keep all of France's North American colonies, while France regained its territories in the West Indies.

#### Russian Czars During the Reformation
 - In 1613, an assembly of Russian aristocrats declared Michael Romanov the new Czar of Russia. Michael, only 16 years old, was related to a previous czar through his mother, though he and his mother had been exiled from Moscow for nearly a decade. When Michael took the throne, he had his work cut out for him perhaps more than any other 16-year-old in history! Indeed, Russia was in a shambles. After the 1605 death of Boris Godunov, who had taken the throne for himself after being adviser to the Czar, central authority in Russia had disintegrated.
 - Multiple claimants to the throne vied for power, and the Russian landed aristocracy wavered back and forth between the would-be czars. To make matters worse, Russia's neighbors, Poland and Sweden, were exploiting Russian weaknesses to carve out Russian territory for themselves and creating chaos by throwing their own weight behind claimants that best suited their interests.
 - Michael's first task as czar was defeating the Western invaders, which had carved up portions of Western Russia for themselves. Sweden and Poland were both defeated within five years, and afterward, Michael's exiled father was allowed to return to Russia. Michael was not a particularly strong personality, and both his father and mother greatly influenced the early years of his rule. Nonetheless, under Michael's reign, the Russian economy improved and agriculture rebounded significantly.
 - Czar Michael was the first czar to invite the development of foreign industry and investment in Russia; for example, it was under Czar Michael that a Dutch company built a firearms manufacturing operation in Tula, Russia, a city which remains a hub of firearms manufacturing to this day. Czar Michael also oversaw the reorganization and education of the Russian military class in the 1640s - a precursor to the institution of a standing army. Michael died of an illness, which historians have yet to exactly identify, in 1645.
 -  While Michael Romanov was the first Romanov Czar of Russia, the reign of Peter I some decades later was quite possibly the greatest rule by a Romanov czar, earning Peter the nickname 'Peter the Great.' Like Michael, Peter spent his adolescence in exile. Though technically a joint czar with his half-brother, Ivan, Peter was virtually ignored by the Moscow elite. The exile allowed Peter to spend a great deal of time reading and learning - an education which greatly helped him later in life.
 - When Ivan died in 1696, Peter succeeded to the throne as Czar Peter I. Peter began his reign by breaking the power of those who had once excluded him, centralizing authority in himself and in the position of czar. Then Peter promptly went on a European tour of sorts, traveling in disguise at times while visiting shipyards, museums, schools, and other sites, all in an effort to learn about European practices.
 - When Peter returned, he was determined to implement some of these European policies to modernize Russia and make it a true European power. He sent young aristocratic boys to Italy to learn from master shipbuilders in order to construct a Russian navy. Even before his navy could set sail, however, it needed a port. To do this, Peter reorganized the Russian military, making it more efficient, better drilled, and making its offices more meritocratic. He then went to war several times with the Swedish Empire until he had won Russia a port on the Baltic Sea.
 - This port was not merely a place where Peter could dock his newly built navy. In addition, Peter used the port to encourage Russian trade with larger European powers to the West. Not only did trade increase, but Peter also fostered the growth of industry in Russia in an attempt to Europeanize the Russian economy. Peter also Europeanized the Russian aristocracy, forcing Russian nobles to cut the long beards typical of Russian nobility and conducting his court in a fashion more closely resembling France or England than his Russian predecessors.
 - 