### Andrew Garber
### June 12
### Cold War

#### Tensions between the US and Soviets
 - Rivalries exist between nations based on political and philosophical differences as well, only the implications for these rivalries turning sour can be far worse. Perhaps no rivalry between different nations had greater implications for the entire world than that between the United States and the Soviet Union in the second half of the 20th century. Separated by vastly different political, economic, and social philosophies, tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States, a period historians term the Cold War, had the potential to lead to the end of the world as we know it.
 - When World War II (WWII) ended, the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union had already decided what post-war Europe would look like. At various conferences, the most important of which were at Yalta and Potsdam, the three powers split Germany and its capital Berlin in two, with the eastern portion controlled by the Soviet Union and the western portion controlled jointly by the United States, the United Kingdom, and France. Additionally, the Soviet Union was given influence over the governments of several Eastern European states, where they promptly set up loyal, communist puppet regimes. These client states, though technically independent, were effectively part of the Soviet Union, sharing its communist economy and single-party political structure.
 - The United States and the West feared the creation of this Eastern Bloc, as Western journalists and government termed it, and the further spread of communism and/or totalitarian states in the rest of the world. U.S. foreign policy became one of containment - essentially, stopping the spread of communism wherever it could. This was in direct opposition to the Soviet Union's policy of fostering the spread of communism, especially in its Asian neighbors. For example, Soviet agents had spent significant time with Mao Zedong's fledgling Communist Party in China in the 1930s and 1940s, where communism eventually prevailed and created the People's Republic of China in 1949.
 - The tensions between the world's two biggest superpowers ratcheted up with the advent of nuclear weaponry. The United States had already obliterated two Japanese cities and hundreds of thousands of Japanese civilians with atomic bombs to end fighting in the Pacific theater in WWII, and in the late 1940s and 1950s both the United States and the Soviet Union pioneered even larger hydrogen bombs capable of producing explosions thousands of times more powerful than atomic bombs.
 - Though these two countries never fought an all-out war, they fought numerous proxy battles around the world. For example, the entire reason the United States got involved in Vietnam in the 1960s was to contain the spread of communism. Though the Soviet Union never sent troops to Vietnam, they funneled arms and weapons to the communist North Vietnamese and American pilots often faced Russian-made MiG fighter jets.
 - However, there were several times when the United States and the Soviet Union came dramatically close to open conflict. In Berlin in 1961, soon after the Soviet Union erected the Berlin Wall to separate the Western-controlled half of Berlin from the Soviet half, a dispute over U.S. officials entering and leaving East Berlin led to a standoff that nearly began World War Three. After a U.S. diplomat was turned back at the border by East German officials, another diplomat was led through East Berlin by an armed escort.
 - Despite the stunt, East German officials continued to claim control over who entered and left East Berlin. As a result, the U.S. general in command of the area, General Lucius Clay, ordered several U.S. tanks to a border post known as Checkpoint Charlie. Viewing this measure as a threat, Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev ordered Soviet tanks to the same checkpoint. The standoff between the two groups of tanks, separated only by about 100 yards of no-man's land, continued for the next 16 hours. After some secret negotiations between Moscow and Washington D.C., the tanks slowly pulled back, one by one, averting further conflict.
 - But the following year, the two superpowers were involved in yet another tense standoff. In October 1962, a U.S. spy plane spotted Soviet ballistic missiles being erected on the island of Cuba. Cuba had only recently become a communist nation in 1959 when Fidel Castro seized power from the corrupt but American-supported Fulgencio Batista. Castro had allied himself with the Soviet Union, and a failed U.S.-backed invasion at the Bay of Pigs in 1961 had irrevocably severed relations between the U.S. and the island nation only 90 miles from the U.S. coast. With Soviet missiles now on the island within close enough range to strike any target on America's eastern seaboard, the American government sprang into action.
 - Thankfully, all-out nuclear warfare was avoided between the superpowers in the 1950s and 1960s. Though the superpowers remained hostile to each other throughout the 1970s, that decade saw a cooling of tensions from the height of the early 1960s. For example, in 1975 Soviet cosmonauts and American astronauts met on the Soviet space station and shook hands, an event seen as symbolic of the better relations between the two superpowers. The 1980s saw the Soviet Union slowly decline, wracked with internal economic and political problems. Reforms were unable to fix the deep problems, and the Soviet Union dissolved in 1991.

#### Soviet Domination of Eastern Europe
 - During World War II (WWII), and especially once it became apparent Germany would lose, leaders of the United States, the United Kingdom and the Soviet Union met at several conferences to determine what post-war Europe would look like. The most decisive of these conferences took place at Yalta in the Southern Soviet Union. At Yalta, President Franklin Roosevelt and Prime Minister Winston Churchill made key concessions to appease the Soviet leader Joseph Stalin and hopefully secure his participation in the United Nations, which the Western governments instituted soon after the war.
 - In return, the United States and the United Kingdom agreed to recognize the annexation of the Baltic nations the Soviet Union made before and during WWII. Additionally, and most importantly, the Western governments agreed to recognize Soviet influence over the governments of several Eastern European states. The Soviets claimed they needed this influence to create a series of buffer states to protect the Soviet homeland from future Western aggression.
 - After the war ended, with Soviet troops still occupying most of Eastern Europe, the Soviet Union saw to the creation of Soviet-friendly communist parties and governments within each state, and engineered their election. The Soviets essentially created client states out of most of Eastern Europe in states such as Poland, East Germany, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria. This group of states became known to the West as the Eastern Bloc. Yugoslavia was also a communist state, however it was not allied with the Soviet Union, and Albania began the post-war era as a Soviet client state, but broke off relations early in the 1960s.
 - Soviet control of the governments and economies of these Eastern European countries was almost complete. Though all Soviet client states had their own independent governments, the communist parties, which controlled these governments, were closely allied with the Soviet Union and directly connected to Moscow. Additionally, the Eastern European states were integrated into the centrally controlled command economy of the Soviet Union, and external trade with Western Europe or the United States was forbidden.
 - This relationship between the Soviet Union and its client states in Eastern Europe was further solidified in 1955 with the creation of the Warsaw Pact. The Warsaw Pact was an agreement between all of the Soviet client states and the Soviet Union for mutual military protection; that is, if one country was invaded or attacked, all of the other nations would rush to aid that country.
 - The Warsaw Pact was little more than a show; with the Soviet Union in firm control of the entire region, any incursion by a Western country into any Eastern European country would surely have been met with a Soviet counterattack, Pact or no Pact. In fact, one of the countries involved in the agreement, East Germany, had no military presence to speak of as part of the treaties which ended WWII! The creation of the Warsaw Pact was largely a response to the West's formation of NATO, a mutual military treaty organization between most of Western Europe and North America.
 - The Soviet Union's firm grip upon the other nations in the Warsaw Pact is perhaps best exemplified by the Brezhnev Doctrine. Named for Leonid Brezhnev, Soviet premier and leader of the Communist Party from 1964 until his death in 1982, the Brezhnev Doctrine stated that all communist countries in Eastern Europe were responsible for promoting the health of the communist parties throughout the region. Any perceived weaknesses in a national communist party or any attempted relaxation of communist measures were to be met with military intervention by all other Warsaw Pact countries.
 - The strictness of this policy was made all too apparent in Czechoslovakia in 1968. In the face of a struggling economy and popular distaste for communist measures, the Czechoslovakian Communist Party removed its leader and replaced him with Alexander Dubcek. Dubcek was a reformer, by communist standards, and he ended censorship of the press in 1968 and enacted some liberal economic reforms. The relaxation of press censorship allowed for greater public debate concerning communism and anti-communist demonstrations erupted across the country.
 - Fearing the unrest in Czechoslovakia might spread, Moscow resolved to invade Czechoslovakia and reinstall a more conservative communist government. Soviet forces faced minimal opposition as they rolled across Czechoslovakia, swiftly taking control of major cities. Before long, the Soviets had forced Dubcek to step down and imposed a strict form of communism and ended the short-lived freedom of the press. Though guerilla movements fought Soviet troops in the countryside for another year or so, communist order was well and truly restored in Czechoslovakia.
 - In this way, Communist states were now only Communist in name - they were very much run-of-the-mill authoritarian regimes, with adherence to Communist economic policy being a distant second to the need to maintain power.
 - The Soviet Union maintained its firm grip upon Eastern Europe until well into the 1980s. However, by the 1980s the Soviet economy was floundering, and Mikhail Gorbachev's attempted reforms - ironically some of which were similar to those tried in Czechoslovakia in 1968 - only hastened the decline of Soviet control over the rest of Eastern Europe. In the late 1980s, communist governments across Eastern Europe fell to reform movements and Moscow made no attempts to retake the countries. The Soviet Union itself dissolved in December 1991.

#### Post WW2 Great Britain
 - At the end of WWII, Great Britain found itself at a major crossroads. Millions of its young men were returning home from fighting on the continent and needed jobs, medical care and help returning to the normalcy of peacetime. Furthermore, parts of Britain needed to be rebuilt after having been heavily bombed during the war, especially London, where Germany dropped thousands of bombs in less than a year during the London Blitz.
 - Among Britons, there was a general consensus that the country's first post-war priority should be meeting these domestic needs of its citizens and cities before anything else. Historians have termed this general sense among the British public the post-war consensus. It was these motivations that led to Britain shocking the rest of world when Winston Churchill, the Conservative Prime Minister who had led Britain to victory in WWII, was defeated heavily in the July 1945 parliamentary elections. Churchill's Conservative Party lost nearly 200 seats in the government, returning a parliamentary majority for the Labour Party led by Clement Attlee.
 - Attlee, who had been appointed Britain's first ever Deputy Prime Minister during the war, won the election through claiming the Labour Party could rebuild Britain after the war better than the Conservative Party, whom he branded as a party fit only for wartime leadership. He was elected based on campaign promises that the Labour Party would focus on achieving and maintaining full employment in Britain, nationalize key industries and create an entirely free National Health Service. (Churchill was actually a supporter of welfare programs, and had argued loudly for them in the early 1900s when he was still a Liberal.)
 - Attlee's calls for improved social services and an improved standard of living for all Britons did not come out of the blue; rather Attlee was continuing the policies of several Labour and Liberal ministers and leaders of the early part of the 20th century. For example, Liberal Party Prime Minister H.H. Asquith, in partnership with his Chancellor of the Exchequer David Lloyd George, introduced a variety of reforms, including unemployment insurance and old age pension for Britons 70 years of age or older without the means to care for themselves.

What was different about Attlee's plans for social reform is the overwhelming support his policies had from the public. Indeed, many of Attlee's goals were taken directly from the Beveridge Report, published in November 1942. The Beveridge Report, produced by the Keynesian economist William Beveridge, addressed the social inequalities in British society at the time. The report categorized the needs of British society into five 'great evils': squalor, want, ignorance, idleness and disease. The report also proposed large plans to combat these evils, mainly through the creation of a national social safety net to help those without the means to help themselves.
 - The Attlee government used the Beveridge Report as a manifesto of sorts after the 1945 election. Indeed, only a month after its election, the Attlee government passed the Family Allowance Act, which granted each family a small monthly stipend per month for each child to aid in the child's care. The following year they passed the National Insurance Act, which established an extra income tax for all workers to pay into funds they could access later in life, such as unemployment insurance and a retirement pension.
 - Only two years later in the summer of 1948, the Attlee government instituted its most ambitious social program yet: the National Health Service. The NHS intended to bring free healthcare and cheap prescriptions to all British citizens regardless of their socio-economic class. The NHS was incredibly popular at the outset and remains one of the cornerstones of British society for many Britons. Attlee's decisive actions built upon the work of his predecessors, and in conjunction with the post-war consensus, helped build what many have called the British welfare state.
 - The irony that the British government was now extending massive social service programs, while at the same time fighting the effective bankruptcy of the nation following the expenditures of the war was not lost on the Attlee government or the people, and various economic measures were taken to ensure the government could afford the new programs.(some successful, others not-so-much.)
 - While internally the British were coming together, externally their once mighty empire was falling apart. Soon after the end of WWII, following nearly a century of unrest and conflict with Indian nationalists and the Indian National Congress, led chiefly by the non-violent protester Mahatma Gandhi, Attlee's government partitioned the expansive British Empire's territory in South Asia into India and Pakistan and granted both their independence from Great Britain in 1947.
 - The British further withdrew from the Middle East when they eliminated their mandate over Palestine and the newly founded state of Israel the following year.(Israel was almost immediately invaded by nations on its borders.) Furthermore, the British Empire suffered a major embarrassment when then Prime Minister Anthony Eden engineered a joint Israeli-French-British invasion to retake the Suez Canal, which had been nationalized by the Egyptian government in 1956. The invasion was condemned internationally, and after threats from several nations, the British withdrew their forces.
 - In the 1960s, the British government slowly allowed most of its remaining holdings in Asia and Africa to declare independence peacefully. Whereas the British government had once controlled nearly half of the entire African continent, by 1970, the Seychelles Islands were the only African territory still a British possession, and even that small nation declared independence in 1976. By the end of this period, the once mighty British Empire was largely confined to the British islands and several small islands around the world.
 - The demise of the post-war consensus came in the 1980s with the surprise 1979 election of Britain's first female Prime Minister, Margaret Thatcher. A staunch conservative, Thatcher guided Britain through a difficult economic period. Only, instead of championing social investment like Clement Attlee, she preferred free market economics and did her best to dismantle as much of the social safety net as she could.
 - For instance, even prior to her premiership when she was Education Secretary, she removed the free school milk program in British schools, earning her the derisive moniker, Margaret Thatcher the Milk Snatcher. In her time as prime minister, she cut taxes, abolished certain social programs and even tweaked the popular NHS to allow for increased competition in the system. Thatcher's ultra-conservative policies earned her many political enemies - even within conservative circles - and she was removed from power by her own party in 1990.

#### Poland
 - After the defeat of Germany in WWII, Poland remained more of a concept than a reality. Under staunch Soviet control and with borders already somewhat amorphous, the victorious allies had to decide what to do with Poland. In the end, the United Kingdom and the U.S. agreed to the Soviet Union's plans to annex the eastern territories of Poland to the Soviet Union, and in recompense, Poland received East Prussia and other German territories, roughly 80% of the size of the territory it lost in the East to the Soviet Union. Poland was also recognized as being part of the Soviet 'sphere of influence' within Eastern Europe.
 - The Polish people had no voice in the discussions and certainly were not asked if they preferred being under Soviet influence or not. Regardless, millions of Poles were directly affected by the new borders, as the Soviet Union forced the mass migration of Poles from the formerly Polish territory in the new Soviet borderlands. It relocated many of these Poles to the lands the new Polish state had received from Germany, where the Soviet Union also expelled millions of Germans. In all, nearly six million Poles were relocated by 1949. Furthermore, despite the arbitrary nature with which these borders were drawn, they largely remain the borders of the Polish state today.
 - As the closest state to the Soviet Union and well within the U.S. and U.K.-recognized Soviet sphere of influence, Poland stood little chance of gaining complete control over its own affairs after WWII. Indeed, the Polish government was reconfigured to foster the growth of communism and increase Soviet control. For instance, in 1946, the Polish provisional government held a national referendum which approved the nationalization of Polish industries and created a single-house representative assembly - one that the communists could easily dominate. The results of this referendum were likely doctored by Soviet officials.
 - In the first post-war elections in 1947, the communist government, led by the Soviet-backed Wladyslaw Gomulka, won a vast majority of the seats in the Polish government, though this was largely engineered through fraudulent election results and intimidation of opposing politicians. Gomulka promised to lead Poland to socialism and communism slowly, in a way that aligned with Polish values and needs. The true extent of Soviet control in Poland was displayed the following year, however, when the Soviet Union decided Gomulka's plans were too slow moving. In 1948, Gomulka was removed from the leadership of the Polish communist party in favor of Boleslaw Bierut, who initiated a more rapid communization of Poland.
 - As a result, Poland became increasingly integrated into the Soviet economy along with the rest of Eastern Europe. The country was rapidly industrialized and agricultural land was collectivized and nationalized. The Soviet-backed Polish government even began instituting Six-Year Plans in 1950, mimicking the Five-Year Plans the Soviet Union used to set goals for industrial output.
 - Poles did not necessarily flock to communist principles in the way the Soviet puppet government hoped, and by the mid-1950s, unrest was sparked when some 15,000 industrial workers rioted over the failure to be paid properly. The riot was initially put down by troops, killing dozens of demonstrators. Whereas in the past the Soviet regime would have mercilessly quelled the rebellion, the new Soviet regime of Nikita Khrushchev negotiated with Gomulka, who was returned as leader of the Polish government during the crisis. Gomulka reassured Khrushchev he could successfully end the strike and riots without further bloodshed.
 - Cycles of protest and riot remained a problem for the Polish communist government over the following decades. In 1968, riots broke out in Warsaw after an anti-Russian play was banned from being performed, and Gomulka only staved off Soviet invasion by lending Polish troops to the Soviet Union to be used in the Soviet repression of demonstrations in Czechoslovakia. Only two years later, riots again broke out across Poland's major cities when food prices rose dramatically.
 - The riots spread to the countryside and Gomulka was removed from power. His successor managed to quell the unrest only through placing strict price controls on food. These piecemeal measures only led to a concurrent rise in foreign debt, which nearly bankrupted Poland, and by 1976, strikes and riots again broke out when food prices jumped 60% because the price controls bankrupting the country were removed.
 - The economic depression and unrest led to the creation of Solidarity in 1980. Solidarity was a trade union independent of the government founded in Gdansk with Lech Walesa proclaimed the leader. The Solidarity movement quickly gained popularity throughout the country, and in 1981, the communist government declared martial law and outlawed Solidarity.
 - Unfortunately for the Polish communists, at the same time Mikhail Gorbachev was relaxing controls on political freedoms in the Soviet Union, which undermined the communists' attempts to clamp down on Solidarity. With the newfound ability to speak relatively openly about politics from the mid-1980s onwards, Poles began discussing the nature of Polish communism and the best way forward for Poland. In 1988, the country held a Soviet-sanctioned free election, which returned a massive majority for the Solidarity movement and calls immediately began for a return to democracy in Poland. In December 1990, Solidarity's leader, Lech Walesa, was sworn in as President of the new Polish democracy.

#### Czechoslovakia
 - Prior to the beginning of World War II (WWII), Czechoslovakia was annexed by Germany. It was agreed to in Munich by the leading European powers of the day in the hopes that granting Germany this territory, which they wanted due to the large German population in the Sudetenland, would placate German imperialism, avoiding conflict and ending future aggression. The Czechoslovakian government was not privy to the negotiations, and as a result has since referred to the agreement as the Munich Betrayal.
 - After Germany took possession of Czechoslovakia in 1938, its president, Edvard Beneš, resigned. He soon set up a Czechoslovakian government in exile in France and moved it to London after the German invasion of France. During the war, German occupation grew increasingly strict in Czechoslovakia, and politicians that had remained or activists who stirred up trouble were routinely arrested by German police and the Gestapo. As the war progressed and the Holocaust increased in intensity, Czech and Slovak Jews were deported, and areas of Czechoslovakian cities were transformed into Jewish ghettos.
 -After the defeat of Germany in WWII, Beneš returned triumphantly to Prague in 1945, where the republican Czechoslovakian government was restored. The harsh treatment of Czechs and Slovaks by the German occupiers was not forgotten. Soon after the restoration of Czechoslovakia, Beneš' government began deporting any Germans remaining in Czechoslovakia, especially those living in the Sudetenland. In all, 1.7 million Germans were deported to the American occupation zone in West Germany, and an additional 750,000 were deported to Soviet-controlled East Germany. Additionally, the land and companies of any Nazi collaborators were confiscated and nationalized.
 - Unfortunately for the Czechoslovakian republic, the country fell firmly within the sphere of influence the United Kingdom and the United States had agreed to grant the Soviet Union. When the Czechoslovakian republic made moves to begin accepting Marshall Plan aid and better relations with the West, the Czechoslovakian Communist Party, or KSC, began stirring up trouble at Moscow's behest. As a result, the KSC began using its control of the Ministry of the Interior to purge the police and security forces of non-communists.
 - In the first few months of 1948, the KSC used its control of the police and security forces to take control and occupy key ministries and posts of the Czechoslovakian government. Before long, non-communist government officials were denied speaking time on any major Czechoslovak radio or television network. On February 25, 1948, Beneš resigned the presidency, fearing that any resistance from his republican allies would lead to a Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia. He died later that year, having seen his dreams of a democratic, republican Czechoslovakia crushed twice in his lifetime.
 - Soon after the KSC took control of the Czechoslovakian government, they began implementing Marxist principles and strengthening their already close ties with the Soviet government in Moscow. Most sectors of the economy and society were brought under state control. All heavy industry was nationalized, and all schools were controlled by the government. Furthermore, the government was purged of any remaining democratic officials. Even within the KSC itself purges occurred, as any communists not sufficiently radical for Stalin's and Moscow's liking found themselves arrested. Czechoslovakia was soon integrated into the Soviet economy and was tightly controlled by Moscow, regardless of technically remaining a separate state.
 - In the 1950s, communist Czechoslovakia rapidly expanded its heavy industry as dictated by Moscow. By the 1960s, however, the Czechoslovakian economy had slowed, and some within Czechoslovak communist circles began clamoring for change. The Moscow-preferred communist leader was deposed in 1968. In his place Alexander Dubcek, a moderate communist reformer, took the presidency. Dubcek relaxed some of the stricter communist measures in the Czechoslovakian economy hoping to encourage growth, and he removed the censorship of the press. This led to mass demonstrations against communism across Czechoslovakia.
 - These developments alarmed the Soviet Union, who feared the failure of communism in Czechoslovakia could lead to rebellions elsewhere in communist Eastern Europe. As a result, Soviet premier Leonid Brezhnev ordered Soviet troops into Czechoslovakia. Soviet forces rolled through the country largely unopposed, taking control of most major cities in a matter of days. Soon after, Dubcek was forced to resign, and a more communist-friendly regime was installed at the head of the Czechoslovakian government.
 - Only two decades later, the Soviet economy was floundering, and Mikhail Gorbachev ironically instituted some of the very same reforms the Czechoslovakians had attempted in 1968. As the Soviet Union's tight grip over Eastern Europe began to falter, anti-communist protests and demonstrations broke out across the region, including in Czechoslovakia. The anti-communist movement in Czechoslovakia was largely led by students and other members of the educated public.
 - Many historians have contributed the students' fervency to being too young to remember 1968, and therefore unafraid of possible Soviet reprisals. Vaclav Havel, a former playwright, emerged as leader of the opposition in the streets of Prague. In 1989, only days after the Berlin Wall fell in Germany, the communist government of Czechoslovakia quietly and bloodlessly handed over the reins of government to Havel, which has become known as the Velvet Revolution due to the peaceful regime change.
 - The fall of communism was not the final momentous event in the history of Czechoslovakia. Indeed, before the end of the millennium, Czechoslovakia itself would cease to exist. The two regions of the country were different ethnically and economically: the western half inhabited mainly by ethnic Czechs and far richer, as opposed to the eastern half, which was poorer and inhabited mainly by ethnic Slovaks.
 - Soon after the Velvet Revolution, Slovakian nationalists formed the Slovakian Nationalist Party and pushed for further decentralization from Prague. Despite the wishes of its politicians, the majority of both Czechs and Slovaks did not wish for the country to split. Regardless, the government pushed through with several resolutions in late 1992 at the behest of the separatist party, and on January 1, 1993, Czechoslovakia dissolved, becoming the Czech Republic(now renamed Czechia) and Slovakia.

#### Yugoslavia
 - If you've ever baked a cake, then you know how incredibly important it is to have the exact proportions of ingredients. Having too much or too little of one ingredient or, worse, forgetting it altogether can ruin a cake, tart, or batch of cookies. Though postwar Yugoslavia was made up of numerous different ethnic and linguistic groups, its cohesion was balanced like the icing on a cake by the rule of Josip Broz, the head of Yugoslavia's communist dictatorship. When Marshal Tito (as Broz was nicknamed) died and his strong arm left the seat of Yugoslav power, the entire confederation began to unravel.
 - Yugoslavia was created in the aftermath of WWI. Prior to WWI, the Balkans had largely been the military playground of two major powers of early modern Europe: Austria-Hungary and the Ottoman Empire. However, WWI destroyed what remained of the once mighty Ottoman Empire and drastically weakened the Austro-Hungarian Empire. This created a power vacuum in the Balkans, one many Slavic intellectuals hoped would be filled by a new, pan-Slavic state. Through the work of several nationalist groups working with Western countries, the Slavs got their wish and founded the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, which was officially and internationally recognized in May 1919.
 - Yugoslavia's early history was tumultuous, as ethnic conflict arose often between ethnic Serbs, Croats, and Slovenes. The government under the king was dominated by a rivalry between Serbs and Croats and their competing political philosophies: Serbs preferred a strong, central government, which they would likely dominate, while Croats preferred a decentralized federation of states.
 - These concerns created numerous problems, but the issues became secondary with the rise of a strong, aggressive Germany in the late 1930s. After Germany consolidated its control of Eastern Europe in the late 1930s and began WWII with its invasion of Poland, Germany invaded Yugoslavia in April 1941. It only took 11 days for the German army to completely overrun the country, and over 300,000 Yugoslav troops and officers were taken prisoner by the Germans.
 - The German occupation of Yugoslavia gave rise to a communist movement in the pan-Slavic state. Indeed, the communists were the chief organizers of the anti-German resistance movement during WWII, and the Yugoslav communist party (named the Partisans) reorganized its leadership for that purpose in July 1941. Later that year, Josip Broz - Marshal Tito - began organizing Albanian communists in the South and conducted guerrilla movements against German military installations throughout Yugoslavia. When the tide of the war turned, it was Tito's communists who fought alongside Russian troops, pushing the Germans out of Yugoslavia.
 - Tito's Partisans emerged from the war the most powerful political force in Yugoslavia, and soon after the war's end, most Western countries recognized Tito's government as the legitimate government of Yugoslavia. Earlier in 1945, Tito's government had held 'free' elections, though most political parties boycotted the elections in response to the tactics of Tito's Partisans, who suppressed non-communist publications and hindered non-communist politicians' ability to campaign. The overwhelmingly communist government which was elected adopted a Soviet-style communist constitution later that year. Though the constitution set up many of the offices of a federal republic, including multiple ministries and various administrative freedoms given to the non-Serbian provinces, in reality, most actual power within Yugoslavia was concentrated in the presidency and Marshal Tito.
 - Tito's postwar government followed Soviet examples and collectivized and nationalized most large landholdings in the country, whether they were held by large landowners, banks, churches, or other groups. They even instituted Soviet-style 5-year plans, which set out incredibly ambitious goals, intending to rapidly industrialize the Yugoslav economy and enrich and empower the incredibly poor majority of the population in the rural areas of Yugoslavia.
 - Despite the Soviet-style communism practiced in Yugoslavia, Yugoslav relations with the Soviet Union were surprisingly poor. Soviet premier Joseph Stalin and the Moscow government expected Yugoslavia to fall in line and follow Soviet directives, much like the other communist governments under Soviet influence in Eastern Europe. However, Marshal Tito resisted integration into the Soviet economy, fearing an unfair trade balance that would undoubtedly favor the Soviet Union. Resentments between the two countries due to looting and rape by Soviet troops in Yugoslavia during WWII further strained relations. When Yugoslavia refused to attend a conference between the Soviet Union and its client states in 1948, the Soviet Union expelled Yugoslavia from its group of communist nations and called for Yugoslav communists to overthrow Marshal Tito's government.
 - However, Tito's power was never threatened in Yugoslavia. The vast majority of communists in Yugoslavia supported Tito, and his government openly suppressed opposing politics, at times jailing and executing political prisoners or foreigners accused of attempting to subvert communism in Yugoslavia. Despite this early radicalism, Yugoslavia slowly softened its communist stance in the 1960s. The economy was slowly liberalized, and Tito even allowed for the devolution of some power to the regional republics within Yugoslavia. In 1970, the country even signed an initial economic treaty with the European Economic Community.
 - In 1980, Marshal Tito died just three days short of his 88th birthday. Tito's strong hand and popularity proved crucial to Yugoslavia. Furthermore, his policy of dispersing Serbs - by far Yugoslavia's largest ethnic group - throughout the country had prevented Serb domination of the Yugoslav government. The death of Tito renewed many of these ethnic anxieties concerning the future of the Yugoslav government.
 - The 1980s were also a time of economic trouble for Yugoslavia, as the same problems that plagued the rest of the communist East also affected Yugoslavia. These economic troubes were largely caused by Tito taking out huge debts from international lenders, with the belief that he would bascially never have to pay them back because capitalism was doomed. When the debts came due, and capitalism was alive and well, Yugoslavia didn't have the money. Inflation and unemployment were rampant, and living standards within the country fell. These issues, coupled with ethnic tensions, caused many republics within Yugoslavia to begin pushing for more decentralization and eventual independence. In 1981, for instance, Yugoslavia sent troops into its Southern republic of Kosovo to silence calls for independence there.
 - Tensions grew even higher when the fears of Yugoslavia's smaller ethnic groups were realized in 1989. That year saw the Serb Slobodan Milosevic take power and begin calling for increased centralization in Yugoslavia. Its other republics began almost immediately making preparations for independence. On June 25th, 1991, Slovenia and Croatia both declared independence from Yugoslavia, and Bosnia-Herzegovina did the same the following year. Though Slovenia's war for independence lasted less than two weeks, in Croatia and Bosnia the fighting lasted several years. Fighting in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina was often ethnically-based, as the independence movement ignited age-old rivalries between Croats, Serbs, and Bosnian Muslims. Several instances of ethnic-cleansing occurred during the fighting, where Serbian troops raped, tortured, and murdered entire villages of civilians based solely on their ethnicity. Several Serbian generals have since stood trial in European courts for war crimes because of these actions.
 - Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia both achieved recognized independence as part of the Dayton Accords in November 1995. Additionally, NATO and the UN established a peacekeeping mission in the region to hopefully avoid future ethnic conflict. However, this did not stop the disintegration of Yugoslavia. In the late 1990s, the Kosovo Liberation Army fought for independence from the Serbian-dominated Yugoslav government. Serbians responded by invading once again and persecuting Kosovo's majority ethnic Albanian population. This time the international community responded in force. NATO and U.S. bombs fell upon the country, at times hitting targets in the capital Belgrade. The bombing campaign forced a hasty Serbian retreat, and by 1999 Kosovo's independence was recognized.

