### Andrew Garber
### June 15 2023
### AP European History


#### Post war cooperation
 - When World War II (WWII) ended in 1945, Europe had spent the last 30 years fighting two of the bloodiest wars the world had ever seen, and in between fascist regimes whipped the populations of central Europe into a racist and xenophobic frenzy, ending in the genocide of approximately six million Jews. Even before these horrible events, Europe had experienced generational warfare for centuries.
 - For example, less than a lifetime before World War I (WWI), millions of Europeans perished in the Crimean War, and before that, the Napoleonic wars only a generation before embroiled the entire continent as Napoleon expanded his French Empire. In addition to killing millions, these wars also caused massive destruction in European cities and in the countryside, often forcing industries to rebuild from scratch and states to spend massive amounts of money rebuilding infrastructure.
 - To avoid this continuous warfare, some European states began looking for greater international cooperation in the region. Through greater communication and involvement, the leaders of Western Europe hoped they could avoid future conflict. Additionally, after WWII Europe was economically ruined. Not only were large parts of the continent devastated by war, but its post-war economies were failing quickly due to the destruction of its infrastructure and the abrupt change from wartime production to peacetime production.
 - Fortunately for Europe, the United States and several smaller allies less affected by the war, like Canada and Australia, were willing to help. The Marshall Plan, named after the U.S. Secretary of State George Marshall, intended to get the European economy back on its feet through huge infusions of U.S. cash. The first agreement toward European cooperation was made in 1948 to meet the challenges of distributing this cash.
 - The Organization for European Economic Cooperation (OEEC) had 18 participating nations, almost all of whom were directly affected by the war. It included nearly all European nations with the exception of those under Soviet control. Soviet states, fearing Western influence, were directed by Moscow to not accept any Marshall Plan aid.
 - The importance and clout of the OEEC declined in the early 1950s as Marshall Plan aid from the United States began to taper off. However, the suspension of aid did not stop the European countries from realizing that they could be better by working together. In 1951, Italy, Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, France, and West Germany founded the European Coal and Steel Community (ECSC).
 - Through the ECSC all six nations agreed to allow coal and steel, two materials that were the backbone of central European industrial production, to move freely across each other's borders. Additionally, companies from each country were free to set up mining and refinement operations in the other countries without having to pay tariffs. The ECSC established an impartial High Authority to monitor the trades and set prices across the region.
 - The successful treaty between these six states expanded heavy industry and encouraged economic growth throughout Western Europe and a few years later the same states signed the Treaty of Rome, creating the European Economic Community (EEC) in 1957. This agreement sought to establish a European 'common market,' which would reduce tariffs and trade restrictions between the participating nations, fostering trade and growth in other sectors of the economy as well.
 - Additionally, many travel restrictions between the six nations were similarly removed, allowing the citizens of member states to live and work freely across the region. Though critics were initially worried about the consequences of having similar policy approaches across such a diverse and varied region, the results were largely positive economic growth for all states involved.
 - The success of the cross-borders cooperation fostered the organization's growth, with the UK, Ireland, and Denmark joining in the 1970s. However, the EEC was not perfect. In the 1980s, several member states were angry that domestic laws and preexisting trade relationships with countries outside the EEC gave some countries an economic advantage over others.
 - As a result, in 1986 the nine member states agreed to the Single European Act (SEA), which tried to remove the restrictions which gave some countries advantages and make the community a truly common marketplace. Additionally, the SEA put in place several laws tying the member states' foreign policy decisions closer together.
 - The success of the SEA and the collapse of communism caused the member states to look for even greater cooperation in the 1990s. According to the Maastricht Treaty, implemented in 1993, the European Economic Community became simply the European Community (EC), and later the European Union (EU). Though this may sound simply like semantics, the implications of the name change and contents of the treaty were far greater.
 - Indeed, the member states were no longer simply joined together to foster the region's economic growth, but for greater integration of all sectors of economy, government, and society. Maastricht gave greater power to the European Parliament and greater control over the foreign policy of its members. Additionally, Maastricht created a committee to look toward creating a common currency for the EU. This common currency, the Euro, was successfully launched in 2002.
 - The success of the EU has similarly sponsored its growth. Greece, Spain, and Portugal joined in the 1980s, while Austria, Finland, and Sweden joined in 1995. The fall of communism further bolstered the regional power of the EU in the early 2000s as several formerly communist states became member states.

#### EU EXPANSION
 - The next major step in European integration and development of the EU came in 1993 when the European Economic Community officially became simply the 'European Community' as part of the Maastricht Treaty, which was signed the previous year. Indeed, no longer were the member states concerned merely with international economic cooperation in the region, but the transition from the EEC to the EC meant that these same states were intending greater cooperation at all levels of government, from agricultural development to foreign policy.
 - Going forward, the EU began to put more emphasis on all sectors of European life. For example, in 1997, the Treaty of Amsterdam stated that the EU's goal was to improve employment and general human rights in all of its member states, as well as reconfigure EU institutions in order to meet the challenges presented by its changing role. In addition, the Treaty set plans to explore the possible introduction of a single currency for all of Europe.
 - In 1999, the euro was introduced for electronic commercial and large-scale financial transactions, and in 2002, bank notes and coins were introduced as the euro became the sole currency of all of its member states with the exception of the U.K., which kept the British pound. The new currency made moving between countries even easier for the citizens and businesses of Eurozoned countries, and it gave the Eurozone one of the strongest currencies in the world.
 - Additionally, the Eurozone has expanded greatly in the last ten years, adding eight countries from formerly Communist Eastern Europe in 2004: Czech Republic, Slovenia, Lithuania, Latvia, Hungary, Estonia, Slovakia, and Poland. Malta and Cyprus were also added the same year, Bulgaria and Romania joined only three years later, and Croatia became a member state in 2013. Turkey and Macedonia are still candidates for membership in 2014.
 - The EU today continually works toward further integration between European member states and more international influence. For example, in 2004, the EU wrote a European constitution meant to state common goals of all member states and enumerate the shared values of the organization. However, it was largely rejected at the time. In addition, the EU now has a foreign minister, which is supposed to represent the foreign policy interests of all of Europe on the international stage. The EU also continues to make itself a more efficient and democratic institution. In 2009, the Treaty of Lisbon reformed numerous EU institutions with these goals in mind.
 - The EU is not without its problems today. Indeed, the financial crisis of 2008 hit the Eurozone hard, and the failing economies of several nations, including Spain and Greece, have forced the EU to make massive loans within the organization in-between various member states and have caused friction between nations. The EU is hopeful that Spain and Greece will make a full recovery, much in the same way Ireland did in the early 2000s when it required an EU bailout. Some of this friction has caused anti-EU movements within certain countries, and isolationist anti-European political parties have gained traction in even the wealthier countries, like the UK.
 - As a result of such pressures from within the UK, the country voted to leave the EU by a small majority in 2016. There is also growing anti-EU sentiment in Germany and France. The National Front in France and the AfD in Germany have promoted sentiment against the EU and have managed to gain roughly 20% in national elections. The EU also faces difficulties in Poland and Hungary as they have issues regarding democracy, treatment of migrants, and the rule of law. Hungary was especially criticized by the European Commission for media censorship. Populism also remained a persistent problem in many EU countries, while moderate political parties throughout Europe faced election losses.
 - Those issues notwithstanding, the EU remains a powerful force in international politics and is still largely considered the voice of the European continent. Its mission continues to be one of economic growth and development and increased human and political rights in its member states.

#### Margaret Thatcher
 - Margaret Thatcher was born in 1925 in the small town of Grantham in eastern England as Margaret Roberts. Her family ran a grocery business in the town and she grew up in an apartment above her father's store. In addition to being the town grocer, her father was also a town councilman with a decidedly conservative political philosophy. Despite these relatively humble beginnings, Thatcher went on to Oxford where she studied chemistry.
 - After a few years as a research chemist, Thatcher tired of academia and instead retrained to become a barrister (the British version of U.S. lawyers), and focused her energies on politics. This was not an entirely new interest for Thatcher; while at Oxford, she had been elected president of the Student Conservative Association. She became Margaret Thatcher when she married Dennis Thatcher in 1951.
 - Thatcher first ran for political office when she attempted to win the parliamentary seat in Dartford in 1950 and 1951. From the start Thatcher was a devout conservative, and she was soundly defeated in both elections because Dartford was a Labour Party stronghold at the time. It was not until 1959 that Thatcher won her first seat in Parliament, becoming the MP for Finchley, a constituency in north London. Thatcher was a young star of the Conservative Party in the 1950s because her Dartford campaigns had made her semi-famous for her easy public speaking manner and strong opinions.
 - Once in Parliament, she rose quickly through the ranks, serving in various posts in the 1960s in Edward Heath's shadow cabinet. After the Conservatives won the 1970 election and Heath became prime minister, she joined his cabinet as Education Secretary. Thatcher's right-wing policies as Education Secretary, such as ending the free milk for students program in British schools, earned her enemies on the radical left and her speeches were routinely disrupted by protesters. Heath listened to his junior Education Secretary little, and Thatcher grew increasingly frustrated with her own position and that of women in British politics, famously stating in 1973 'I don't think there will be a woman prime minister in my lifetime.'
 - The Heath government was wracked with economic problems and fell in 1974 when the Labour Party regained power. After the electoral loss Thatcher challenged Heath for the leadership of the Conservative Party and won, surprising many political commentators at the time.
 - The economic problems Britain faced during the Heath administration persisted throughout the 1970s. Trade unions were routinely on strike, inflation of the British Pound was hurting the purchasing power of the British people and companies alike, and in 1976 Britain needed an emergency IMF loan to avoid bankruptcy. These persistent issues, in part, helped Thatcher and the Conservative Party win a majority of the seats in the House of Commons and make Margaret Thatcher Britain's first female prime minister in 1979.
 - As prime minister, Thatcher's Britain faced several serious economic problems and things were sure to get worse before they got any better. However, Thatcher stuck to her conservative principles, and lowered income taxes and made up the difference by raising indirect taxation, such as sales tax. She similarly raised interest rates in order to battle the British Pound's runaway inflation. While the measures stabilized the Pound, they hurt domestic industry, causing many factories to close their doors due to the raised interest rates on their business loans. Thatcher also was determined to break the power of the trade unions in Britain and forced miners, whose union was particularly strong, back to work on several occasions during her premiership.
 - Thatcher's policies were polarizing and controversial, and economists and historians today still debate their merit and efficacy. Nevertheless, it was not Thatcher's policies that won her reelection in 1983, but her military action in the Falkland Islands in 1982. The Falkland Islands are a chain of islands just off the coast of Argentina and owned by Great Britain. In April 1982, Argentina invaded, legitimating a claim to the islands they had made for decades.
 - Most onlookers assumed Britain would make a deal to cede the far-flung, relatively unimportant island chain to the Argentines. Thatcher, however, did the opposite. When diplomacy broke down, Thatcher sent British troops to the islands, swiftly and decisively retaking the territory, and Argentina withdrew and surrendered in June 1982. The move won her political points throughout Britain, and largely secured her reelection in 1983.
 - After her reelection, Thatcher continued with her conservative policies, controversially selling off state assets and privatizing numerous important utilities and industrial sectors, such as Britain's coal and steel industries, its water supply, railways, and even parts of its electrical grid. Thatcher's controversial policies earned her many enemies, and in 1984 she was the target of an IRA assassination attempt at her hotel in Brighton during an annual Conservative Party conference. Several party members were killed or injured, but Thatcher emerged unscathed. Unfazed, she gave a speech at the conference the following day.
 - Thatcher won reelection yet again in 1987. After her reelection Thatcher pushed forward with some of her most controversial policies to date. She modified Britain's National Health Service to allow for more competition, going against the socialist principles on which the Service had been founded. Even more upsetting to many British citizens was her introduction of a new system of locally-controlled taxation, which led to higher taxes for most British citizens. In addition, she was increasingly disliked within her own party for her vehement opposition to increased British involvement in the European Community.
 - In 1990, Thatcher was challenged for her party's leadership by Michael Heseltine. Though she was originally supported in the first vote, many of her cabinet ministers abandoned her in the second, fearing that she had little chance of winning a fourth election. After losing her party's leadership, Thatcher continued to serve as MP for Finchley until 1992. After her retirement from politics, she became a worldwide de facto ambassador for the free market and conservative principles until her death in 2013.

