### Andrew Garber
### March 30
### Napoleon Bonaparte

#### Early Life
 - Napoleon Bonaparte, the future general of the French army and emperor of France, was born on August 15, 1769, on the island of Corsica to Carlo Buonaparte and Letizia Ramolino. Napoleon was far more Italian than French in his family heritage. Until the year before his birth, Corsica had belonged to the Italian city of Genoa. In fact, Napoleon's father had actively resisted French occupation, at least at first. His defiance quickly faded when the new French regime appointed him as an assessor for one of Corsica's judicial districts.
 - After getting settled in France, Napoleon rejoined the military. This time he met with success in his chosen career. Victory over the British in 1793 earned him a promotion to brigadier general, and by 1796, the French government appointed him commanding general of the French army in Italy. The soldiers were rebellious, underfed, and disgruntled, but Napoleon turned them around, and pretty soon, led by their charismatic general, the French army was winning victories and capturing territory. In 1797, France made peace with several European countries thanks to Napoleon's success.
 - France did, however, remain at war with Britain, and Napoleon seriously considered invading his island enemy. After carefully analyzing the matter, he decided it would be too much of a risk to face Britain's naval strength. Napoleon knew his limits. Instead, he turned his attention to Egypt in 1798 with the hope of disrupting Britain's communication and trade with her colonies to the east.
 - Although Napoleon won some initial victories, the French fleet was eventually defeated by the British. The general suffered another loss in Syria in 1799. The disgusted Napoleon decided to make a change. He had greater possibilities on his mind. It was time to return to France.
 - While Napoleon was furthering his military career, France was locked in the throes of the French Revolution. The Reign of Terror, in which thousands of French citizens met their deaths on the guillotine, was just beginning when Napoleon moved his family to France. Wisely, the new Frenchman decided to align himself with the radical revolutionaries currently in control. Napoleon knew how to get in the good with the right people.
 - Even though he was briefly imprisoned when the radical government fell in 1795, Napoleon soon made allies with the new five-man executive body, the Directory, which recognized his military prowess and launched him to the apex of his career as a general. The Directory, however, was weak, corrupt, and unpopular. Without the support of the French people, it turned to the military for protection, and its reliance on Napoleon and his troops grew as the years passed.
 - In early 1799, a shrewd statesman by the name of Emmanuel-Joseph Sieyès joined the Directory. He firmly believed that the current leadership was failing miserably and that France needed a new government. In other words, Sieyès took his seat on the Directory with the intention of overthrowing the Directory, and he turned to Napoleon for help. The general knew an opportunity for advancement when he saw one and quickly agreed to assist Sieyès with his coup d'état.
 - The Directory hurried to appoint Napoleon as commander of the army in Paris in hopes of saving the Republic. Then Sieyès and two other members of the Directory resigned. The other two members were arrested. So far everything was going as planned. Napoleon was in position to take control. All he needed was support from the two houses of the legislature.
 - The next day was almost a disaster. The legislature's upper house, the Council of Ancients, supported Napoleon, but the lower house, the Council of Five Hundred, resisted. Its members voiced their support for the current constitution and demanded details about Napoleon's plans. Napoleon gave a long, rambling, almost incoherent speech, which didn't satisfy the councilmen at all. Cries of 'Down with the Dictator! Down with the Tyrant! Bonaparte: Outlaw!' rang throughout the hall, and Napoleon was soon dodging various hurled projectiles.
 - Luckily, Napoleon's brother Lucien was in the perfect position to intervene, for he was the president of the council. Lucien acted fast, calling in Napoleon's soldiers and ordering them to 'Throw out this rabble!' Councilmen scattered in panic and Napoleon had control.

#### Napoleonic Code
 - By 1800, France's legal system was a mishmash of old and new laws. The provincial laws left over from the days before the French Revolution were still intact in many places, with Roman law dominating in the southern provinces and medieval common law holding sway in the north. At the dawn of the Revolution, the French people could be subject to 400 different legal codes depending on where they lived.
 - When Napoleon Bonaparte took control of France as the powerful first consul in 1799, he decided that the French legal system required some vast revisions. There should be one law for everyone, Napoleon believed. In 1800, he appointed a commission to help develop a unified code of law that would apply to all French people in every part of France. Headed by legal expert Jean-Jacques-Régis de Cambacérès, this commission met 87 times to discuss, design, and draft this new legal code. Napoleon himself took part in 36 of these meetings to make sure that the commission was including his own agenda and ideas.
 - By the second half of 1801, the commission was ready to draft the new code. Four writers worked on the project, led by lawyer Jean-Etienne-Marie Portalis, who composed several key portions of the code, including the sections on marriage and property. By the end of the year, the code was finished, but its publication was delayed until March 21, 1804. On that day, France officially received its new Civil Code, which later became known as the Code Napoleon or Napoleonic Code.
 - The new code consisted of 2,281 articles in three books. The first book, Of Persons, dealt with civil rights, French citizenship, residence, marriage and family, and divorce. The second book, Of Property, and the Different Modifications of Property, focused on property rights and servitude. The third book, Of the Different Modes of Acquiring Property, concentrated on business, contracts, and inheritance. These books and articles applied to everyone equally. Gone were the days of various legal codes for various provinces. The French legal system was now unified.
 - The Civil Code retained many of the human and civil rights established during the French Revolution. French citizens, at least male citizens, were equal before the law and could freely exercise their rights. They could practice free speech and religious dissent, and they were entitled to property rights, including 'the right to enjoy and to dispose of one's property in the most absolute fashion.' Furthermore, the privileges of the aristocracy, including the feudal systems, were wiped out. All Frenchmen, at least in theory, had equal standing despite their class or wealth.
 - Further, the Civil Code opened the door for the return of slavery in the French colonies. While the code did not mention slavery explicitly, it did include clear statements about property rights. Slave owners were quick to argue that slaves were indeed property, and, therefore, they had the right to do with them whatever they wished.
 - It also made some extremely strong concessions to husbands and fathers, in the control of their wives and children. 
 - Napoleon Bonaparte was proud of the Civil Code and considered it one of his most outstanding achievements. In 1804, the code was firmly in place in France and all of France's colonies. It remained in force even after Napoleon's defeat. The code also migrated to other European countries. Belgium, Italy, Poland, the Netherlands, and sections of Germany all adopted versions of the French code.
 - Some citizens in France and elsewhere were upset by various sections of the code. Catholics especially renounced the code's interference in marriage and openness to divorce. Others, however, welcomed the code. Up-and-coming bourgeoisie, for example, applauded the code's protection of property rights.

