### Andrew Garber
### June 5 2023
### Postwar Europe

#### Post war Stability
 - What this relatively peaceful post-WWII Europe would look like was largely decided before the war even ended. Indeed, by Christmas 1944, Germany's defeat in Europe seemed virtually inevitable. As a result, in early 1945, the United States, Great Britain and the Soviet Union held meetings with each other attempting to decide what the political map of Europe would look like.
 - The first of these conferences came in February, when Winston Churchill, Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Joseph Stalin met in the Southern Soviet Union in the Crimean town of Yalta. At the Yalta Conference, Churchill and Roosevelt essentially agreed to grant the Soviet Union control and influence over most of Eastern Europe after the war. At the time, Roosevelt felt this measure was necessary because although Germany was almost defeated, the Pacific war with Japan had no end in sight. The concessions to the Soviet Union were made to secure Soviet help with the war against Japan. The conference also decided to include France in the post-war management of Germany.
 - But exactly how to manage Germany after its defeat was the main topic of the next major conference between the three powers at Potsdam, Germany, in July 1945. The Potsdam Conference was not nearly as successful as Yalta because new U.S. President Harry Truman was far less willing than his predecessor to grant the Soviet Union concessions. Both sides were willing to give up little ground.
 - The resulting agreement divided Germany into four different occupational zones, with the Soviet Union controlling roughly the eastern third of Germany while the western two-thirds was split between Great Britain, France and the United States. The agreement also ceded portions that were formerly Poland to the Soviet Union, and in recompense, Poland received a large portion of Eastern Germany.
 - The peace that emerged in Europe after WWII was an uneasy standoff between the two sides: Eastern Europe, largely communist and under the influence of the Soviet Union, and Western Europe, backed by the United States and the United Kingdom. The two Germanys that resulted from the rough division between communist East and capitalist West also grew separately according to their economic bent. West Germany and East Germany were the 'frontline' for this Cold War standoff.
 - The stakes of this standoff in Europe were raised with the advent of nuclear warheads and intercontinental ballistic missiles that could shoot the devastating warheads tens of thousands of miles. Both the United States and Russia rushed to stockpile these powerful weapons as a deterrent to the other side.
 - Political stability in Eastern Europe was largely enforced. Most states under Soviet domination - such as Poland or Czechoslovakia - had single-party governments where the only political party allowed to exist was the communist party. These governments were often closely allied with the Soviet government in Moscow, and all were fully integrated into the Soviet, communist command economy. As a result, most of these states underwent rapid industrialization during the early years of the Cold War in accordance with Soviet principles, often implemented by Soviet-style multi-year plans that placed wildly optimistic goals on industrial and economic output.
 - Political stability was also the norm in Western Europe, but these all possessed democratic political structures. For example, despite being a fascist dictatorship during the war, Italy abolished its monarchy and declared itself a republic shortly after the war's end. These democracies were bolstered by U.S. financial aid.
 - Through the Marshall Plan, the United States poured billions of dollars into the economies of Western Europe in order to help rebuild the war-ravaged region and also fuel the spread of capitalism and democracy. Indeed, the enormous U.S. aid had strings attached; when it appeared that communist and socialist parties might possibly take power in Italy's first post-war elections, the U.S. threatened to remove aid and subsequently caused the more capitalism-friendly Christian Democratic Party to win a majority of seats in Italy's first post-WWII parliament.

#### Meta-Disciplines: Traditionalists, Revisionism, and Post-Revisionists
 - The first and earliest school of thought in history is typified as traditionalist. This encompasses a wide variety of historians over a wide variety of topics. For example, Alexis de Tocqueville is considered a traditionalist historian of the French Revolution, while Edward Gibbon is considered a traditionalist historian of the Roman Empire. Though their interpretations necessarily vary by topic, traditionalist historians generally focused more on the great events of history. They believed in the inevitability of history and viewed history as one long, inexorable march to the present day.
 - As each traditionalist historian viewed their current time period as the pinnacle of human development, they naturally denigrated the capabilities and knowledge of prior generations. Previous people who were less technologically advanced were viewed as inferior to present people but superior to those that came before. As a result, traditionalist history presented the reader with a logical chain of progression, from primitive humanity to the presumably advanced humanity of the present day. Failures of past empires or organizations were often chalked up to an inability to recognize problems that the historian often considered obvious.
 - With this 'grand narrative' of progressive human development in place, the factors and motivations for momentous events, such as the French Revolution or the fall of Rome, were often placed in deeply embedded social or political issues. Through recognizing longstanding problems, events in traditionalist narratives were often viewed as inevitable. According to de Tocqueville, for instance, the French Revolution occurred because of the inherent weaknesses and inefficiencies of the French monarchy during the entirety of the 18th century. The French Revolution was, in large part, a reaction against a century's worth of poor government.
 - Revisionist historians did to the traditionalist narrative what their name suggests: made substantial revisions. Revisionist historians almost always clashed with traditionalist historians and often claimed that traditionalist historians failed to properly analyze all of the evidence and documentation available to historians.
 - The most damning claim revisionists often made of traditionalist historians was that the traditionalist narrative was more important than the actual facts. The revisionists claimed that traditionalist historians first came up with an appealing story or interpretation that best fit into their overarching idea that history was constantly and progressively marching to today's modernity. Then, after the traditionalist historian had established an appealing narrative, they made the facts and events of the historical subject fit into the preferred mold.
 - It was not, revisionists said, that traditionalists ignored the historical facts and circumstances - indeed, their narratives were also based on some historical fact - but that they discarded or belittled evidence that contradicted their 'grand narrative.' Instead, revisionist historians often tried to take a more holistic approach to the study of history. They attempted to approach each event or trend in history as objectively as possible, taking into account all historical evidence before formulating a theory or an interpretation regarding the historical events.
 - The interpretations of history that resulted from this approach often led to revisionist histories that viewed the causes or motivations of a momentous event in history as far more immediate than traditionalist historians. For example, whereas traditionalist historians might claim a war between two countries was inevitable due to longstanding social, cultural, and political differences, revisionist historians would likely point to a disagreement between the two nations that occurred just prior as the main cause for war.
 - If boiled down to its relation to traditionalism and revisionism, post-revisionism splits the difference. Objectivity is key for post-revisionists as it was for revisionists, but post-revisionists are far more receptive than were their predecessors to the idea that long-term trends can play a part in the biggest events of history.
 - Events are often viewed by post-revisionists as being the result of a combination of factors identified by both traditionalists and revisionists. Post-revisionists, for example, will likely concede that an immediate event or person touched off a major turning point in history but also note that the conditions that allowed that person to touch off the major turning point were likely the result of longer-term trends and movements of people and ideas through history.
 - Post-revisionist history has also gone off on numerous tangents where neither traditionalists nor revisionists ventured. These tangential histories often intend to explain larger concepts or periods of history through exploring the history of individual products, ideas, or the evolution of the trends themselves.