### Andrew Garber
### The Rise of Monarchial Nation States
### Feb 27 2023

#### The Treaty of Lodi
 - In 1454, Milan and Venice were at war. Venice had been pushing its way into new territories, and Milan took offense. Florence and the smaller city-states Mantua and Genoa sided with Milan. Naples, Savoy, and Montferrat supported Venice. The Papal States were caught in the middle. This war was simply one more in a long string of conflicts over territory, trade, and especially pride.
 - This time, however, both sides were eager for peace. Venice was threatened by the Ottoman Empire to the east and needed stability and support from the rest of Italy. Francesco Sforza of Milan was still trying to firmly establish himself in his rule, and he didn't need an expensive, deadly war complicating matters. They decided to strike a deal.
 - Cosimo de' Medici of Florence worked out the details. Venice would recognize Sforza as the rightful duke of Milan and lean on its allies to do the same. Milan would let Venice retain some territory in northern Italy, especially in Brescia and Bergamo, which bordered Milan. Both sides signed the Treaty of Lodi on April 9, 1454. Their allies quickly agreed to the terms. They were either too weak to resist or too tired of war to disagree.
 - On August 30, 1454, Milan, Venice, and Florence signed a pact that created the Italian League. As members of the League, they agreed to remain at peace with each other for 25 years, defend each other from outside enemies, and refrain from making alliances with outsiders. Further, they confirmed the current borders of the Italian city-states and consented to leave them where they were.
 - Over the next few months, nearly all the Italian city-states joined the League and agreed to its terms. On March 2, 1455, Pope Nicholas V made the alliance official. Italy remained mostly at peace for the next 50 years except for a minor squabble now and then. Without the stress and activity of constant warfare, Italians could turn their attention to the artistic endeavors of the burgeoning Renaissance.
 - Unfortunately, however, peace did not last. Near the end of the 15th century, Naples, Sicily, and Aragon crowned a new king, who was hated at home and abroad. Milan's Sforza wanted to toss him off his throne, but he didn't want to do it himself. He made a deal with King Charles VIII of France. Sforza would offer the French safe passage through Italy if they would depose the bothersome king of Naples. What Sforza didn't realize was that Charles had ambitions of his own, ambitions that would shatter the peace of Lodi and the Italian League and plunge Italy into 35 years of chaos.

