### Andrew Garber
### AP European History
### May 30
### Rise of Fascism

#### Fascism - Characteristics, History, and Rise
 - Fascism is a form of government that has cropped up at various times throughout history, most recently in the mid-20th century in Europe, and its definition is still a hotly debated topic today. However, three basic tenets that nearly all fascist governments exhibit are authoritarianism, nationalism and xenophobia, and the rest of this lesson will detail just how fascist regimes institute and utilize each of these things.
 - The first aspect fascist states often possess is authoritarianism. This means that fascist states are ruled by a strong central government and the public or other branches of government are given no avenue for removing the central authority, whether that authority is made up of a single person or a large group of politicians. As such, fascist states are often dictatorships or oligarchies.
 - The nature of this singular leadership structure often leads to the development of cults of personality around the leader or leaders and his ideals. Indeed, fascist leaders often depend on popularity and the popularity of their message to first gain notoriety or grab onto power.
 - In order to strengthen the fascist central government's authority, fascist states often also possess a personal detachment of foot soldiers or spies apart from the regular military. These special police are often tasked with maintaining the central government's authority through intimidating or arresting opposing politicians. At times, these forces will often even terrorize the country's own citizens, especially those with a history of political activism or family members with such histories.
 - Omnipotent power and unquestioned authority are often required for fascist states to remain in power, and this authoritarianism often extends to the economy as well. The economy under fascist dictatorships is usually tightly controlled, and although businesses are not owned by the government, what they can and cannot produce and who they can and cannot conduct business with is often firmly regimented.
 - The second aspect most fascist states possess is nationalism, or the pride in one's country. The ideals of most fascist states are founded upon a fervent and intense nationalism espoused by the fascist leaders and their followers. The nationalism fascists often exhibit is unbending and imperturbable; whatever the state does - be it helping the poor or murdering innocents - is right, and whatever the central government says is the law.
 - Now nationalism, of course, is fine in small doses - everyone, after all, likes to wave a flag now and again. Indeed, it is this fact of modern human nature on which fascists often capitalize. Fascist leaders often take the nationalism prevalent in most members of the public and inflate it through heavily nationalist propaganda, speeches and other rhetoric, which encourages the public to have an increased sense of pride in one's nation and therefore agree more often with the rest of the fascist party's beliefs and platform.
 - Nationalism is not exclusive to Fascism, it is present in almost every form of government - from communism, to social democracies. What is different is that fascism uses nationalism to such a degree, both to indoctrinate the public and to justify its actions, that it becomes a defining characteristic of the government.
 - The nationalism encouraged by fascist leaders and parties is often complimented by a third leg of fascism: xenophobia. Xenophobia is the fear of foreigners, strangers or otherwise unknown people or entities. Again, as with nationalism, everyone is a little afraid of things that they don't understand or recognize, and fascism capitalizes on this natural human reaction. Indeed, at the same time fascists are often expounding upon the virtues and greatness of the nation and its citizens, fascist leaders are often decrying foreigners and proposing plans to disenfranchise, deport or otherwise harass foreign people and businesses within the country.
 - The worst Fascist regime in history, Hitler's Germany(a title which I believe requires little justification), used Warhammer 40k levels of Xenophobia(partly due to Hitler's personal Neurosis) as justifications for actions that are nearly unparelled in their decadent cruelty.

#### Mussolini
 - The young state of Italy faced many problems in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. The fragmented nature of its beginnings caused vast differences in terms of regional wealth, education, and infrastructure. For example, Northern states such as Milan and Lombardy were relatively wealthy, while large parts of Southern Italy still relied on heavily agricultural economies and were relatively poor. Literacy rates in Italy at this time were far lower than elsewhere in Western Europe.
 - The fragmented state of Italian society was reflected in its government, and very little was actually accomplished by the Italian Parliament. For example, from 1919 to 1922 the Parliament formed five different governments under various coalitions and parties. To make matters worse, Italy had not been given the same favorable settlement as the other allied powers had received by the Treaty of Versailles that ended World War I - a conflict which had strained the Italian economy to its breaking point.
 - It was in this chaotic scene that one of the largest figures of the 20th century emerged: Benito Mussolini. Mussolini was born in Predappio in 1883, the son of a blacksmith. Originally a socialist who had fled to Switzerland to avoid being drafted into the Italian military, Mussolini returned to Italy in 1904 and in 1919 he formed Italy's Fascist Party. As unemployment soared and Italy descended into political anarchy, Mussolini's Fascist Party slowly gained support by running on a vehemently nationalist platform, winning 35 seats in the 1921 elections.
 - In October of 1922, out of a fear of a communist takeover due to riots and strikes in Northern Italy, Mussolini gathered his Fascist followers and party foot soldiers, nicknamed the 'Black Shirts,' and staged a march on Rome. Once there, King Victor Emmanuel III asked Mussolini to form a government and restore order to the countryside. Over the next three years, Mussolini dismantled the democracy Cavour had painstakingly cobbled together, and in 1925, he declared himself dictator of Italy. He took the title Il Duce - literally, 'The Leader.'
 - ascist Italy under Mussolini was a heavily centralized and state-controlled country. Early in Mussolini's tenure as Il Duce, he used the immense powers of the fascist state to marginally improve Italy - social welfare programs to help the unemployed were instituted, railroads and public transportation systems were built or improved upon, and the Italian economy stabilized.
 - However, what few improvements Mussolini's government made were greatly overshadowed by the means by which he achieved them. Soon after declaring himself dictator, all other political parties were outlawed and strict press censorship was instituted. Rumors abounded that socialist leaders, like Giacomo Matteotti and Giovanni Amendola, were being arrested and beaten to death. Workers were stripped of the ability to strike, and although wages rose initially under the Mussolini regime, by 1929 average pay had fallen below that of 1922.
 - In addition, the fascist government pervaded the everyday lives of Italians, force feeding them propaganda glorifying Italy and comparing modern Italy to the Roman Empire. Much like in Nazi Germany, it was considered the duty of any good Italian to be physically fit and have a large family that could be of service to the Italian state. Artwork that did not represent the glory of Italy or Rome was outlawed. In order to propagate these feelings of Italian superiority and begin exerting Italian influence elsewhere, Mussolini invaded Abyssinia (modern-day Ethiopia) in 1935, making it a province of his new Italian Empire.
 - Naturally in such a nationalist state, xenophobia was rampant, and anti-Semitism was particularly strong in Italy as it was in Germany. In 1938, Jews were barred from being government officials or serving in the military, and immigration of any further Jews into Italy was prohibited. In 1939, Mussolini and Hitler signed The Pact of Steel, solidifying the alliance between Germany and Italy.
 - When World War II broke out later that year, Mussolini and Fascist Italy stood firmly by Nazi Germany's side, declaring war on Great Britain and France in 1940. Despite the emphasis Mussolini's fascist state had placed on improving the military, the Italian forces were ill-prepared for full-scale war, and the Italians suffered several defeats to British and French troops in Africa and in the Balkans. What successes Italian troops had, such as in France in 1940, were often in partnership with Nazi German forces. In Abyssinia, the Italians lost their colonial African province, with the capital falling to British troops in 1941. They were driven from the territory entirely by 1943. During this time, they were fighting the British in Egypt and Libya, with the best Italian general of the war, Giovanni Messe, playing a strong counterpart to Rommel's Deutsches Afrikakorps in the North African Campaign - while the German force was objectively the strongest striking power of the Axis forces in the region, the Italians were able defensive fighters despite massively inferior weaponry, high-level command, training and industrial support.
 - In July of 1943, allied troops invaded the Italian island of Sicily. Before the end of the month, Mussolini's fascist government was overthrown, and Il Duce, himself, was imprisoned. All was not immediately lost for Mussolini, because while the new Italian government sued for peace, the Germans fought on, rescuing the imprisoned dictator only two months after he lost power. Two years later, in an attempt to flee the country and the advancing allied army, Mussolini and his mistress were discovered by a group of communist leaders. The following day, April 25, 1945, Mussolini, his mistress, and his entire entourage were summarily executed and their bodies hung upside down in a public square in Milan.

#### Germany and Hitler
 - Fascism is a form of government that maintains strict control over government institutions and the state's citizens, championing nationalism and often racial and ethnic purity above all else. The rise of Adolf Hitler and fascism in Germany has its roots in the aftermath of World War I (WWI). Germany was largely blamed for the war, and the victorious allies imposed harsh punishments upon Germany, including exacting reparations which essentially made Germany pay for the wartime expenditures of each of the Allies in addition to its own. These economic sanctions crippled the German economy, to the point of the German currency, the Deutschmark, becoming virtually worthless.
 - Additionally, the Weimar Republic that replaced the German monarchy after WWI maintained a tenuous control on the nation. Though the Weimar Republic managed some prosperous years in the 1920s, much of this prosperity was fueled by infusions of U.S. cash through the Dawes Plan. When that cash dried up as the Great Depression hit the United States and the rest of the world in 1929, the Weimar Republic floundered.
 - The Nazi Party had its beginnings in the fringe German Workers' Party, which Adolf Hitler joined in 1919 and remade according to his own beliefs. The Nationalist Socialist Workers' Party (or Nazi, for short), as it was rebranded in 1920, had a heavily xenophobic and nationalist platform. The nationalism, or extreme pride in one's country, encouraged Germans to be proud in their ethnicity and heritage, and it increasingly blamed many of Germany's problems on the Jewish people. Hitler's premature attempt at a political coup in 1923 earned him nine months in prison, which merely allowed him time to formulate a better political approach for his party and solidify his xenophobic and anti-Semitic beliefs. The beer hall putch, as it would be named, added a legendary ethos to the Nazi party in their stand against the Weimar Republic that would be glorified through propaganda for the decade to come.
 - He emerged from prison determined to lead his party to power through the electoral process. Additionally, he reorganized his party foot soldiers into a paramilitary force - the notorious SA and SS(along with the RSHA, the personal protection service of high-ranking Nazi Party offiicals. This would eventually become the Führerbegleitbatallion, the personal protection unit of Hitler would be commmanded for a time by Erwin Rommel. This unit would eventually become the SS Panzer Division Leibstandarte Adolf Hitler, an elite and lavishly equipped SS Panzer Division that would play a key role in the fighting on the Eastern front, most notably in 1943). Hitler's strong oratorical skills and highly nationalist message appealed to the downtrodden Germans of the late 1920s and early 1930s. Germans flocked to support Hitler and his Nazi Party, happy to once again be told it was okay to be proud to be German.
 - The subsequent rise of the Nazi Party was meteoric; from a party on brink of collapse during Hitler's time in prison in 1923, the Nazi Party received the second most seats in the German Bundestag in the 1930 elections. In the 1932 elections, the Nazi Party added 123 seats to the 107 they already held, becoming the largest party in the German government. Almost immediately, Adolf Hitler mobilized the SA and SS and began intimidating political opponents and taking physical control of government apparatuses. He pushed through a series of laws stripping Germany of its democratic institutions and centralizing power in his own hands. By April 1933, Hitler was essentially dictator of Germany.
 - The 1930s saw Germany become increasingly enveloped by Hitler's cult of personality and the incredibly nationalist and anti-Semitic values of the Nazi Party. Hitler consolidated control through reorganizing the SA and SS and forming the Gestapo, murdering, exiling, or imprisoning many former devotees in the process.
 - Jews came under substantial pressure as the Nazi Party sponsored boycotts of Jewish businesses, and events like the Night of Broken Glass, or Kristallnacht, in 1938 fostered increased violence against Jewish institutions and Jews themselves. In 1935, the Nuremberg Laws were instituted, which placed hundreds of restrictions on Jews and Jewish life in Germany, including forcing Jews to wear identifying clothing in public.
 - At the same time, Hitler's Germany began flouting international laws. The ultra-nationalism Germany exhibited sought to unite all ethnic Germans under the German flag. As a result, in 1936 the German army marched into the Rhineland - an industrialized region of western Germany on the French border, where they were forbidden to be by the terms of the Treaty of Versailles. In 1938 and 1939 Germany further annexed Austria and Czechoslovakia, respectively.
 - Domestically, the Nazi Party whipped the German people into a nationalist fervor. All things German were prized, and the German people were encouraged to raise large families and live healthy lifestyles in order to be of service to the German state. This was largely done by the head propagandist of the Nazi Regime, Joseph Goebells - who, despite his propaganda espousing traditional morals and monogamy, had a large number of extramarital affairs. 
 - While Germany spread its influence over Europe, within Germany and its new territories, Hitler began his systematic elimination of the Jewish race, the disabled, and any foreign nationality Hitler came across which he despised - in particular, Russians and Poles. This plan he termed his Final Solution, and he carried it out by shipping these people to camps where they were often worked to death or otherwise murdered. As the war dragged on, these camps increasingly became extermination camps, where prisoners, especially Jewish ones, were executed soon after arrival. All told, by the end of the war, approximately 11 million were murdered in Hitler's death camps, with as many as six million being Jews, though estimates vary wildly.
 - Several military blunders during WWII would prove the beginning of the end for Hitler and the fascist German state. The invasion of Russia in the summer of 1941 would prove a costly mistake, as Germany expended vast amounts of resources for every inch of Russian soil it gained, eventually being turned back after the Battle of Stalingrad. In 1943, the Allies invaded Sicily and began conquering Italy, leading to the overthrow of Hitler's closest ally, the Italian dictator Benito Mussolini.
 - With the summer 1944 D-Day invasion of France, Hitler's German forces were now fighting the Allies on four fronts: the East, the West, in Italy, and in North Africa. This overextended German resources to the breaking point, and despite hard fighting on all fronts German forces slowly retreated. With the Allies closing in on Berlin in April 1945, Hitler and his longtime girlfriend Eva Braun committed suicide inside Hitler's bunker. Within a week in early May, Germany surrendered to the Allies, and Hitler's fascist experiment in Germany ended.

