### Andrew Garber
### March 14
### The Scientific Revolution

#### Pre-Scientific Revolution
 - Furthermore, the Middle Ages were not a complete period of intellectual stagnation in Europe, and isolated universities often carried on the traditions of learning. The thinkers that attended these universities and schools of the Middle Ages often practiced scholasticism. Scholasticism differed from the logic and reason of the Enlightenment era, which often cast aside all facts in an attempt to recognize universal truth. Instead, scholasticism started with accepted truth, whether it was the Bible or the ancient Greek and Roman work. Then, scholars proceeded to read the works critically, making notations and debating with their colleagues in an attempt to understand, interpret, and make inferences to better understand the work's meaning and its applications to the contemporary world.
 - Furthermore, the scientific method - upon which the later Scientific Revolution and most modern science class experiments are based - was first pioneered during this period. Various men, including Robert Grosseteste and the Arab thinker Avicenna, built upon the Aristotelian emphasis on empiricism to show that future events could be predicted by examining past results. The key to the entire method, however, was Roger Bacon, a 13th-century Englishman who was the first man to formulate the scientific method as we would recognize it, where the scientist observes and identifies a question, forms a hypothesis, then devises an experiment to test whether their hypothesis is true.

#### Ptolemy and the Ptolemaic System
 - We know very little about the life of Ptolemy. He was likely born around 100 A.D. and died around 170 A.D. His name suggests he was of Greek descent, though his family likely held citizenship in the Roman Empire. Despite these roots, he was born, lived, and died in the vicinity of Alexandria in Egypt.
 - Ptolemy worked feverishly throughout his life, observing the stars and making careful notations. He built upon the work of others, like Hipparchus and Aristotle, and he likely was taught by the great Theon of Smyrna, an accomplished mathematician and astronomer in his own right. Though Ptolemy's astronomical work was his most important as far as we are concerned, Ptolemy also wrote on various topics, including geography, optics, and music.
 - What sets Ptolemy apart from many of his contemporaries is the book he wrote, likely completed around 150 A.D. The book, originally titled The Mathematical Compilation, is more commonly known by its Latinized Arab title: The Almagest. In The Almagest, Ptolemy compiled a list of all the known stars in the night sky and proposed a fundamental structure to explain the motion of the stars and the heavenly bodies. This structure, known as the Ptolemaic system, remained the prevailing theory concerning the universe among many intellectuals and astronomers for over a thousand years until the late Middle Ages.
 - According to the Ptolemaic system, the universe was necessarily geocentric. This was due in large part to the Greek theory that explained what we know today as gravity. According to the Greeks, all matter naturally fell to the center of the universe. As birds, arrows, and people all fall to the Earth if dropped from the sky, Earth must necessarily be at the center of the universe.
 - But what then, you might ask, keeps the moon, the sun, and the stars from crashing down from the sky? According to the Ptolemaic system, the heavenly bodies remained suspended in the sky as they were attached to crystalline spheres. Ptolemy built upon the theories first proposed by his predecessor Aristotle, who claimed that the heavens contained 55 of these crystalline, translucent spheres, with each larger one encompassing all the others.
 - Upon these concentric spheres, the planets, the moon, and the sun were all attached. Upon the largest and furthest away sphere were pasted the faintest stars. These spheres all rotated around the Earth at separate speeds. The furthest of these spheres was imparted with a speed by a being Aristotle called the 'Prime Mover.' All of the other spheres rotated due to the angular momentum produced by the force first imparted on this last sphere. The Aristotelian theory explained some of the motion of the stars but not all, and it was often incorrect. For example, it often failed to account for retrograde motion, when some planets and stars appeared to move backward in the night sky after a long period of moving in one direction. To tackle this problem, Ptolemy invented epicycles and deferent points.
 - Many examples of models of these spheres still survive today, and are frequently found at museums and in private collections across the world. 
 - The Ptolemaic system became the accepted structure of the universe throughout the Western world. That Ptolemy's calculations could predict accurately the movement of the stars and planets gave his system tremendous credibility with ancient and medieval stargazers.
 - Furthermore, the Ptolemaic system fit well into the worldview espoused by Christianity, which spread across Europe as the Roman Empire declined. For example, Ptolemy's geocentric universe pleased Christian ears who believed humanity and the Earth to be God's one special creation. Furthermore, the 'Prime Mover' to which Ptolemy ascribed the ability to spin the spheres easily adapted to become Christianity's one God.

#### Tycho Brahe and Copernicus burn the established system to the ground
 - Nicolaus Copernicus was a mathematician and a clergyman from Poland. When he went to college to study canon law, he lived with an astronomer. He would have also come into contact with humanist scholars as he studied. At this time, he was introduced to both astronomy and the study of ancient Greeks.
 - Copernicus agreed with Ptolemy's idea of epicycles but disagreed with some of Ptolemy's theory. He proposed that the sun was the center of the universe and that the planets revolved around it. This theory is called the heliocentric system. He also said that the Earth not only moved around the sun, but it also spun on an axis.
 - Copernicus's theory appeared to some to conflict with the writings of the Christian Bible. They claimed that the scripture states that the Earth cannot be moved. Copernicus published his theory in a book called De Revolutionibus.
 - His theories were not widely accepted, as they went against some of the fundamental tenets of scripture ats they were seen then - and he did not find commercial success with his book.
 - Tycho Brahe was a rich Danish man from a noble family. When he went to a university to study law, he also developed an interest in astronomy. Brahe was the last major astronomer to work without the use of a telescope. However, he worked hard to make sure he had the highest quality instruments. He basically enlarged and improved instruments that were already being used to help increase his accuracy.
 - Brahe wanted to find a way to merge Ptolemy's theories with those of Copernicus. He proposed that the Sun and the moon revolve around the Earth, allowing the Earth to remain the center of the universe. However, he also said that the other planets revolved around the sun.


#### Science During the Enlightenment Period 
 - Isaac Newton (1642-1727) is arguably the most important figure of the Scientific Revolution. In his monumentally important work Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy, Newton formulated the Laws of Motion and the Law of Universal Gravitation. Newton was giant of his field, and his discoveries form the basis of modern science today.
 - Many scientists of the 16th and 17th century concerned themselves with what they called mechanical philosophy. Mechanical philosophy dealt with issues of matter and motion, and in many ways was a fancy word for 'physics.' Some scientists in the field even proposed primitive variations of atomic theory. René Descartes was a notable pioneer in mechanical philosophy.
 - A major innovation of the Scientific Revolution was the improved scientific method. The scientific method, of course, is a technique for testing hypotheses and arriving at fact. Now, primitive forms of deductive scientific reasoning have been around since ancient times. The modern scientific method, however, as we know, is a direct product of the Scientific Revolution. Men like Francis Bacon and René Descartes were instrumental in developing the modern scientific method.
 - Advances were also made in anatomy, mathematics, and other fields. Andreas Vesalius (1514-1564), often considered the 'Father of Human Anatomy,' published On the Structure of the Human Body in 1543. This was a tremendous improvement from previous anatomy texts and had a major influence on the discipline. Other well-known scientists include William Gilbert, who pioneered work in magnetism and electricity, and the mathematician Blaise Pascal, who invented the mechanical calculator and made significant contributions to the area of mathematical probability.

[label](the_scientific_revolution.md)