### Andrew Garber
### April 21 2023
### Unification of Nation States

#### Italy
 - Whereas Mazzini might have had the fervor, the next man with the real political power and acumen to unify Italy was Camillo Benso di Cavour, prime minister of the most powerful independent Italian state in the early 19th century: Sardinia. In addition to the island of Sardinia, the state also controlled Savoy, Piedmont, and Nice in northern Italy. Cavour had been prime minister of Sardinia since 1850. Cavour's original intentions were simply prestige and power for Sardinia, but his goal - uniting more Italian territory under the same flag - was one and the same with those who wanted an Italian state. Moreover, Sardinia had a moderate king in Victor Emmanuel II who ruled jointly with the Sardinian parliament - a political system those wanting an Italian republic would likely accept.
 - Cavour realized the most powerful nation in northern Italy in the mid-19th century was Austria, who possessed the large and rich territory of Lombardy. Knowing Sardinia could not defeat the Austrians by themselves, Cavour tried to position Sardinia in a politically advantageous position by entering the Crimean War on the side of France, Great Britain, and the Ottoman Empire in the mid-1850s. Meanwhile, Cavour continued to strengthen Sardinia and its territories from within, building railroads and improving the military.
 - Though Sardinia joined the war late and made very little real impact on the outcome, Cavour's move had gained Sardinia powerful international friends in Great Britain and France, who were simultaneously upset with Austria for steadfastly refusing to get involved in the Crimean War. With help secured, Cavour stirred up nationalist rebellions in the territory controlled by Austria. Cavour's troops invaded from the Sardinian territory of Piedmont, and Napoleon III of France immediately sent French troops to aid in the Sardinian effort.
 - The conflict did not take long, and Austria surrendered Lombardy to Sardinia. At the same time, Italians in Parma, Tuscany, and other central and northern Italian states rebelled against their independent rulers and joined Sardinia in the hope of creating a pan-Italian country.
 - With northern Italy now largely under the Sardinian flag, Cavour sent Giuseppe Garibaldi with a small force to southern Italy in 1860. Garibaldi was a long-time Italian revolutionary, and had been part of Mazzini's force that attempted to set up a republic in Rome in 1848. Garibaldi's forces were wildly successful, but the assault on the southern territories nearly stopped before it even began. Garibaldi was furious with Cavour and Sardinia, after he learned that in return for French help against the Austrians, Cavour had ceded Savoy and Nice to France. Garibaldi was from Nice and was outraged - the very city for which he was hoping to unite Italy was now French!
 - Somehow, Cavour placated him and Garibaldi began his campaign, swiftly conquering Sicily before crossing to the southern Italian countryside, encountering little resistance along the way. Garibaldi finished his campaign and in October of 1860, turned his conquests over to Victor Emmanuel of Sardinia. In 1861, Victor Emmanuel proclaimed all his territory to be the Kingdom of Italy.
 - The only parts of modern Italy which remained outside this new country were the Papal States and Venice. Realizing a direct attack on the pope would lead to international intervention, Cavour secretly encouraged riots and protests in the Papal States and before long two of the three states joined Italy, leaving Rome standing alone.
 - Rome was protected by the French, and Venice was still under Austrian control. The new Italian state (of which Cavour was the first prime minister) bided its time. In 1866, with Austria at war with Prussia, Italy saw their opportunity and joined the Prussian cause. After Prussia's victory, Italy annexed Venice.(This was a Bismarck plan, he didn't really want Venice and was more than happy to trade 1 Venice for Italian help against Austria)


#### Germany (Bismarck doing Bismarck things)
 - The common criticism of the precursor to modern Germany, the Holy Roman Empire, was that it was neither holy, nor Roman, nor an empire. Indeed, though Germany as we know it today was nominally united under an imperial crown for almost a millennium, in reality, the German lands were composed of approximately 300 individual principalities and city-states that largely operated in independence of one another.
 - Though certain powers dominated different parts of the German lands throughout the Holy Roman Empire's history, it was not until the 17th century that early modern Germany's two greatest powers, Prussia and Austria, began to expand and incorporate more and more German territory under their respective flags. In the early 19th century, Napoleon's conquest of the German lands ended the Holy Roman Empire. After Napoleon's defeat, the German states created the loosely-associated German Confederation in 1815, containing all territories of the former Empire with majority German speakers. Power within the Confederation was dominated by Prussia and Austria.
 - Perhaps no other statesman was in such a fine position to make this dream a reality as the Chancellor of Prussia during the mid-19th century, Otto von Bismarck. Bismarck was a fervent German nationalist who wanted a German nation, but specifically one dominated by his Prussia. As a result, once appointed, Chancellor Bismarck set out to strengthen and improve the Prussian army and gain international allies that would help Prussia on its way to unifying Germany. (The road to Chancellor Bismarck was not easy nor apparent to many in his own time, he was sent as an envoy to the Tsar in St.Petersburg, a way to get him out of Berlin)
 - After gaining the Chancellorship in 1862, Bismarck began improving Prussia's diplomatic position to ensure Prussia's dominance over Austria. In 1863, when Russia experienced a revolt in its Polish territory, Bismarck and Prussia supported Russia in its violent suppression of the rebellion. This endeared Prussia to Russia, who was traditionally an ally of Prussia's German rival, Austria.
 - The neutralization of Russian interest in German affairs came in handy just a few short years later. After Bismarck encouraged the uprising of German nationalists in Schleswig and Holstein and wrested the two territories from Denmark in the 1864 Danish War, Prussia turned its eyes on Austria. Austria had joined the Danish War in the hopes of supplanting Prussia as the defender of German nationalists, but only succeeded in becoming entwined in the defense of territory, which was far away from its home in South Central Europe.
 - Indeed, after the Danish War, Austria and Prussia were considered joint defenders of Schleswig and Holstein, and in order for Austria to defend the two principalities it had to cross Prussian territory. Prussia denied Austria the right to do so, and when the rest of the Confederation supported Austria, Bismarck declared the Confederation defunct, declared war on Austria and invaded other Northern German lands.
 0 The ensuing conflict lasted only seven weeks, and Prussia defeated Austria resoundingly, due in part to both diplomacy and military superiority. Indeed, Prussia possessed a better-trained and better-equipped army than the Austrians, but it was Prussia's neutralization of Austria's potential allies of Russia (due to Prussian help in the Polish rebellion) and France (due to Prussia's promises of territory) that really made Prussia advantageous. Additionally, Prussia guaranteed the new Kingdom of Italy the Austrian-controlled territory of Venice, and in doing so, gained a strategic ally south of Austria.
 - With Austria neutralized, the final obstacle to Prussia's unification of Germany was France. France still controlled territory on the border of the new, Prussian-dominated German Confederation, which Prussia considered German. Moreover, France was equally ambitious to expand eastward into German lands and simultaneously was worried about the growth of Prussian power at its doorstep. To provoke war, Bismarck released the now famous Ems Telegram, which appeared to insult the French ambassador and France itself.
 - Outraged, Napoleon III declared war on Prussia in the summer of 1870. This would prove a grave mistake for the French. After only six weeks, the better supplied and well-organized Prussian military had defeated the French and captured its main army, including Napoleon III, at Sedan. After a siege of Paris, the Prussians marched into the French capital in January 1871 victorious.
 - General Helmuth von Moltke the Elder, who led the Prussian forces in this war(and was perhaps as capable at warfare as Bisamrck was at diplomacy) was the uncle of the General Helmuth von Moltke who would disastrously lead Prussian forces in WWI. 
 - The war did more for Prussia than simply gain the territory it considered German, mainly Alsace and Lorraine. In the buildup to the war, the Southern German states outside the confederation asked to join the Confederation out of fear of French attack. With all this territory now in Prussian control and its borders secure, Bismarck declared the German Empire in 1871, crowning the King of Prussia, Wilhelm I, as Kaiser of Germany. The ceremony took place in Versailles, the traditional seat of French power, further humiliating France.
 - 

#### France

#### UK

#### Russia

#### Austria-Hungary

#### Ottomans