### Andrew Garber
### December 12
### 

#### Prompt
 - Both novels examine civil unrest, revolutionary and importantly, the characters involved in fostering that unrest and resolution. 
 - Compare and contrast Hemingway's treatment of civil war in FWTBT and Azuela's perspective on civil uprising in The Underdogs.   Similar situations - are the authors delivering the same message? How do the character developments support the author's purpose?  Which treatment is more effective in your opinion (but NOT in first person!) and WHY / HOW? 
 - This is like 6--7 paragraphs..  Use dialogue, setting, narrative plot points and/or transitions.  Remember not to treat each in a vacuum - I'd like to see how you view these IN COMPARISON to each other. 

#### Response
The early parts of the 20th century were filled with political and social upheavals across the world due to rapid advances in technology and the rise of industrialization, many of these upheavals unfortunately led to costly civil wars. The grand scale of these wars and the destruction they caused led to a wave of literature that used the tragedy of war to explore the human societal and political condition. *The Underdogs* by Mariano Azuela and *For Whom The Bell Tolls* by Ernest Hemingway are two novels that do exactly this, set during the Mexican and Spanish civil wars respectively. Comparisons and contrasts between these novels are only natural, as they are set in similar time periods, deal with similar subject matters caused by comparable political and socioeconomic conditions, and have a shared cultural backgrounds. However, the authors of these novels have different approaches to the subject matter, and the characters they create are used to convey different messages. While the goals of both authors are similar, to explore the dramatic human consequences of war, Azuela focuses more on the descent from righteous war based on strong ideals to a war based on personal gain, while Hemingway focuses more on the effects of war on individuals and communities.

Azuela's focus on the belief in the cause is not a concept missing from Hemingway's writing, but Azuela endows it as the central focus of his novel and it drives the plot. The novel opens with Demetrio Macias taking to the mountains to fight the people who came after his home and family, arguably the greatest way to gain belief in a fight against tyranny. This is exemplified when Demetrio meets his band, Azuela writes, "'They've burnt my house,' he said. A murmur of oaths, imprecations, and threats rose among them... 'Glory be to God and by His Will,' said Demetrio, 'tonight or tomorrow at the latest we'll meet the Federals. What do you say, boys, shall we let them find their way about these trails?'" This desire for what St. Augustine called a righteous war, one with only the goal of peace, quickly degrades as the story progresses and greed becomes the prime motivator of the revolutionary forces. This is in sharp contrast to Robert Jordan's band, where due both to Hemingway's focus on the struggle of the individual and the objectively smaller number of characters it was not a commonly discussed topic of why they were fighting, it was an internal fight to keep their nerve in the face of almost certain death. The grandest discussion of why they were fighting was during Pilar's monologue, saying, "'My father was the mayor of our town and a Republican. And when the Nationalists took the town, they lined up all the Republicans against the wall. My father cried out very loud, "Long live the Republic." And then they shot him. But my mother was not a Republican. She had no politics, but she loved my father and she couldn't say that. So she just looked at my father who lay there on his face at her feet, and she said, "Long live my husband who was the mayor of this town.'". The fact that Pilar's reason for fighting is not explained until long after she has gained the trust of both the reader and Robert Jordan shows the contrast of Azuela's focus on the cause being first, and the individual second and the inverse being true for Hemingway.