### Andrew Garber
### December 5
### The Value of Life in Hemingway's *For Whom the Bell Tolls*

The value of human life is an intensely philosophical concept that has been argued over millennia, but in times of war with the specter of death hanging closer over every person's head the topic gains new meaning. In his seminal work, *For Whom the Bell Tolls*, Ernest Hemingway delves deeply into the question using the backdrop of the family history of Robert Jordan and imagery of the natural world they reside in. These seemingly unconnected factors are tied together by the conditions of the war and increase the intensity of conflicts between the characters, ultimately bringing about Hemingway's conclusion that the value of life is determined not by how long one lives, but by what one does in that time.

The family history of Robert Jordan is not revealed at one moment throughout the story, instead coming through in small bits of information as the story progresses. The reader first thinks that these small nuggets of information about Robert Jordan's family and his motivations just serve to flesh out the character, but as the story progresses it becomes clear that these details are key to understanding where Jordan finds his inner strength and his conviction to fight. This is best shown when after Jordan's horse is shot out from under him and he has to decide between defeating the pain, in the same manner, his grandfather had, or being shot and surrendering to it as his father had, "'Do you want me to shoot thee, ingles?'... 'No hace falta,' Robert Jordan said, 'Get along. I am very well here." This inner strength, when the physical pain of his destroyed leg and the mental pain of losing both the love of his life and his own life just when he began to truly value them is unimaginable. However, instead of taking the easy option as his father had done and ending his suffering immediately, he decides to take the noble path and continue the fight in the same way as he believes his grandfather would have done in his situation. The diametric opposites by which Robert Jordan views his grandfather and father allow them to be used symbolically as virtue and courage being equivalent to one, and selfishness and timidity to the other.

Hemingway's seeming fixation on the imagery of the natural world is first seen as a kind of contrast to the bloody and high-stakes nature of the conflict however as the story progresses it becomes intimately tied to the theme of the value of life. The first time this is seen is at the very start of the novel, as the credibility of Anselmo who is seen as the fundamental advocate for Robert Jordan among the guerillas is based upon his knowledge of nature, "Bending under the weight of the packs, sweating, they climbed steadily in the pine forest that covered the mountainside. There was no trail that the young man could see, but they were working up and around the face of the mountain and now they crossed a small stream and the old man went steadily on ahead up the edge of the rocky stream bed". The fact that Robert Jordan's life is put in the hands of a man whom the reader is given no more reason to trust than that he knows the path through the expansive nature, it becomes clear how intimately tied the imagery of nature is to the value of life in the novel. Without Robert Jordan and the reader trusting Anselmo from the beginning as a guide through terrain both, interpersonally, and culturally the story could have never progressed - and all of this is based upon Anselmo's knowledge of the nature surrounding them.

In conclusion, the value of human life is a central theme of Hemingway's work, *For Whom The Bell Tolls* and his conclusion that the value of life is not a count of time but a measure of deeds is brought about through the backdrop of the family history of Robert Jordan and imagery of the natural world. These come together to support his conclusion cohesively despite their having few obvious similarities, in the manner in which Robert Jordan chooses to act and how they influence his dedication to the republican cause.