#### Andrew Garber
#### English 10
#### May19-

Science fiction today is thought of as a fundamental genre of literature, home to great works that have had a profound impact on the world. However in the border between that and fantasy, that of mysticism is one ill defined and not considered at all until about a century ago. The early works of the genre straddled this divide, dipping into strongest elements of both and becoming essential hallmarks of the genre. While the most well known of these, written by Shelly, Wells, and Verne established the genre as capable of powerful works, *A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court* by Mark Twain was the first to truly democratize science fiction even while incorporating strong elements from fantasy.

*A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court*, written in 1889 was a revelation in the science fiction genre, taking plot devices that would later become staples including time travel, wizardry and advanced technology into the mainstream. It tells the story of Hank Morgan, frequently called *The Boss* throughout the story who is taken back in time to the era of the Arthurian round table, while the social criticism  is notable, far more notable to the growth of the genre was the mastery by which Twain integrated central concepts of fantasy while creating the modern science fiction genre by grounding the plot in reality. Twain's methods of storytelling in *A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court* mirror that of *The Boss*, a good example of this is the destruction of Merlin's tower, which cements *The Boss* as a leader of the nation and his power over the people and the aristocracy. While the destruction of the castle is sold to the people as a work of his wizardry, it is actually done using dynamite - a technology that was in common use in the time before he was transported back. This mirroring of *The Boss* and Twain is a clever storytelling technique that helps cement the genre as capable of great works, enhance the plot and make his social criticism more prominent.

Twain's democratization of science fiction in *A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court* begins in earnest when *The Boss* starts implementing his sweeping social and technological reforms. This gives Twain the chance to implement one of the most striking elements of almost all science fiction novels, technological inequality. *The Boss*, and those allied with him have technology from more than a millennia ahead of all of their enemies no matter there mystical or numerical power. The most significant part of this for the creation of the science fiction genre was that most of this technology was still new to Twain's time, and some of it was actually just his imagination - the idea of a time machine, a staple in science fiction hadn't properly been described yet. While straddling the line between fantasy and science fiction, Twain masterfully used some of the strongest plot devices and character tropes from both of these genres and set them in a world where every character that wasn't in league with the main character was less intelligent and inferior. Without having to give the main character mystical powers, he was automatically a step above everybody else helping to maintain reader immersion.