#### Andrew Garber
#### May 27
#### Criticism of Industry in *A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court* 

*A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court* by Mark Twain is commonly cited as proof that the science fiction genre can produce works that are more than just fantastical stories, but impactful criticisms of the lives people live. Twain's story introduced plot devices that have become mainstays of the genre, but even more important than his impact as a benchmark of science fiction greatness is his criticism of the modern industrial world. Written in 1896, many of the inventions Hank Morgan, known as 'The Boss' uses were revolutionary for the world Twain lived in, however many of the modern interpretations of the story as either a manifesto on the evil of technology or an endorsement of technology as a way to solve the world's problems miss the point of technology in the story entirely - and our modern world in the same way. Twain's criticism of modern life in *A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court* is neither an endorsement nor an opposition of technology in the world, it is a statement that fundamental human values are irreparably imparted onto the tools we use regardless of their inherent technological value.

*A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court* has been adopted as reference material by both technologist and primitivist groups however it is not a ringing endorsement of either, but an endorsement of the basic values of humanity and a message that the tools we use reference them. A great example of this is when 'The Boss' uses gunpowder, a common substance in his time for a variety of military and industrial applications to blow up Merlin's tower which cements his position as a sorcerer among the people. This event has been turned to both sides of this debate, saying that 'The Boss' manipulating the people and selling his use of practical technologies as sorcery was evidence of the harm that technology can do both to people and to society. While it was undoubtedly manipulative and underhanded to do it this way, the counter-argument to this is that the people of this time would not have accepted an outsider coming in with technology that was so far beyond their time, and 'The Boss' needed to reach a preeminent position in society in order to implement these technologies into their world for the good of society. The truth lies in neither of these arguments, Twain expressed how technology is a reflection of the user, in the case of 'The Boss', he was both manipulative but only for his causes which were meant for the good of the people. In *A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court*, there are no other main characters who use technology besides Hank Morgan and thus the only person reflected in the technology of the story is Morgan. Thus the technology of the times, coming from only one source and used only by one person personifies Morgan's fight against the injustice of the times in the form of the Catholic Church and the Aristocracy.

This fight is best seen when using modern technology Morgan defeats Sir Sagramor and the knights that follow him, he battles almost a dozen knights before his weapon, a lasso is taken from him and then he uses his most advanced tool, a revolver. He then proceeds to kill and rout five hundred knights. This fantastical series of events defines the fight between the good users of technology, Morgan, and his fight with those who want to preserve the fiefdoms they already have at the expense of the masses. By defeating overwhelming enemies using his own inventions, he was seeking to convince everyone that his way was superior, however due to a lack of knowledge about the workings of his technology and a lack of transparency as to who he was and his motivations it was viewed with the same superstition that Morgan derided the church for. Thus comes Morgan's downfall, in a fight between the superstition the people believe in: the church, and the superstition they view with confusion and derision the former will always win. The church mobilizing both the aristocracy and the masses against him was Morgan's greatest fear, and in his fight against it he begins to compromise his values and start using technology for the same evil he created it to defeat.

In conclusion, Hank Morgan's use of technology in *A Connecticut Yankee In King Arthur's Court* shows that Twain, in the creation of this character, meant for his story to neither be an endorsement nor an opposition to technology in society but a reminder that tools only reflect those fundamental human values we impart on them and not an agenda of their own. Hank Morgan is a complicated and contradictory character who believes in the righteousness of his cause and the justice in the goals he seeks, however, when his greatest opponent mobilizes against him he sacrifices many of his values in the use of his technology in order to win which leads to his defeat.