### Andrew Garber
### February 1 2023
### The Renaissance Era
 
#### The Renaissance Timeline
 - First, we have the Hundred Years' War, beginning in 1337 and lasting for about 116 years. It was a nasty skirmish that began when the King of England tried to claim the crown of France.
 - Next, we have another struggle for power, but this time in the papacy. It was known as the Great Schism of 1378, when two popes both claimed authority over the Catholic Church. Again, this caused a bit of a problem. Because of this, we need to include the Council of Constance, lasting through the years 1414-1418, which ends the aforementioned Great Schism.
 - On more of an up note, we can also include the invention of the printing press by Johann Gutenberg in 1448. This invention forever changed world communication. It was the first time that books could be mass produced, and it was a huge step forward for the world, allowing the spread of information to be much easier and cheaper than before. This allowed what information would have been kept to a select few to be spread to the masses.
 -  On a down note, while Gutenberg is printing, people are still fighting as Constantinople falls to the Turks in the year 1453, thus ending the Byzantine Empire and the Eastern Roman Empire. This is a huge blow to the Catholic Church, as the Byzantine Empire was a huge supporter of the Church. This also marks the beginning of the Ottoman Empire, which would last for hundreds of years.
 - Then, in 1492 Christopher Columbus discovers the New World, which is a huge step forward for the world. This is the beginning of the Age of Exploration, which would last for hundreds of years. This is also the beginning of the Columbian Exchange, which is the exchange of goods and ideas between the Old World and the New World. There is a downside here however, as the Columbian Exchange also brought diseases to the New World, which would kill millions of people.
 - As Michelangelo was painting the Sistine Chapel, others were writing. We have Martin Luther nailing his 95 Theses to the doors at Wittenberg in the year 1517. This work not only changed the religious landscape of much of Northern Europe but also caused some real trouble for its author, Martin Luther.
 - Speaking of trouble, we also have the Peasants' War of Germany beginning in 1524 and lasting about two years. Although its duration was very short, it was a large uprising of the peasant class, seeking influence and freedom for their everyday lives.
 - In 1545, we have the Council of Trent, a series of three meetings held by the Catholic Church in order to answer the charges of the Reformation and to dogmatically solidify its beliefs. To this day, it's considered one of the most important councils of Catholic history. 
 - In 1555, with the Holy Roman Empire continuing to weaken, the Peace of Augsburg was enacted, giving the princes of Germany the right to practice Catholicism or Lutheranism as they each saw fit. Sadly for other religious sects, only Lutheranism and Catholicism were recognized.
 - Just when things seemed like they couldn't get more upside down and sideways on the continent of Europe, along comes the Thirty Years' War of 1618 - one of the most damaging conflicts in European history, in which most of Central Europe became engulfed in a battle that began as Catholic versus Protestant but soon degraded into a race for European preeminence.
 - And this brings us to our last timeline entry, The Peace of Westphalia, a series of several treaties finally ratified in 1648, bringing an end to both the Eighty and Thirty Years' Wars of Europe. Although this treaty didn't really bring true peace to the continent, it was a large step toward national boundaries and state sovereignty.

