### Andrew Garber
### January 17 2023
### God In Philosophy

#### God In Western And Eastern Philosophy
 - dualism has been a defining trait of most Western religions. For example, Western Christianity teaches a clear distinction between the natural and the supernatural, or in simpler terms, God and man.
 - To illustrate this, take a look at these words from the Bible: 'For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and all are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that came by Christ Jesus.' (Romans 3:23-24)
 - Notice how these words say we humans have fallen short of the glory of God. In other words, God is a separate being from us. He's God in all his glory, and we are not.
 - Further highlighting this dualistic belief, do you notice the remedy for our shortcomings? It does not lie within us. It is separate from us, found in the grace offered by Jesus Christ. Not only is it separate from us. Many places in the Christian New Testament tells us we don't even earn it. According to the book of Ephesians, 'God saved you by his grace when you believed. And you can't take credit for this; it is a gift from God. Salvation is not a reward for the good things we have done, so none of us can boast about it.' (Ephesians 2:8-9)
 - Adding to these dualistic philosophies, the Western concept of the Divine holds to monotheism. This is belief in only one god. Despite their many differences, Islam, Judaism and Christianity all hold to the belief in one standalone supreme being who is separate from humanity. Keeping these dualistic concepts in mind, let's turn our eyes to the East and its monism.
 - Standing in stark contrast to dualism is monism. Monism, not to be confused with monotheism, denies any distinction between the physical world and the unseen world. Rather than there being a separate God in the sky, everything is one, and we are a part of that everything.
 - Probably one of the best examples of Eastern monism is the Hindu belief in Brahman. Again working to keep things simple, Brahman is the great unchanging reality that makes up everything. Although a very vague idea, it's seen as the highest reality of which we are all a part. It is an energy that governs the seen and the unseen world.
 - Adding to this, Eastern faiths are often polytheistic. In other words, they believe in more than one god. However, these gods are usually still seen as part of the divine whole. For instance, Hinduism has Shiva and Vishnu.
 - Also adhering to the concept that we are all part of a whole, Eastern faiths tend to put great emphasis on our treatment of each other and the natural world. This is seen as a way to achieve true glory. For instance, the teachings of Buddha, known as the Dhammapada, read, 'Ever grows the glory of him who is energetic, mindful and pure in conduct, discerning and self-controlled, righteous and heedful.'
 - Bringing things full circle, notice how this Buddhist proverb attaches glory to the person, while the Christian text we discussed earlier attributes glory to God alone.


#### Arguments for God
 - Also called the design argument, the teleological argument asserts creation is so intricately and purposefully designed there must be a creator. Anytime you hear someone say something to the effect of 'Wow, look at the sunset God made for us today,' they are using the teleological argument.
 - As one of the main proponents of the teleological argument, the 18th-century philosopher, William Paley, asserted that believing the universe came to be by chance is as nonsensical as believing the watch we wear on our wrist just one day poofed into being. Putting it in terms to help us remember, Paley purported the pretty plants and planets prove that God exists.
 - Another argument that uses nature is the cosmological argument. This one espouses that everything that is has been caused by something else. Having its basis in the works of Thomas Aquinas, and being very linked to the teleological camp, the cosmological argument asserts that all of nature must have been caused by something.
 - Yes, humans have made lots of things, but who caused humans? Yes, plants make oxygen, but who caused the plants? Stretching things a bit more, what about the Big Bang Theory? Maybe there was a Big Bang, but it needed to be caused! With this, cosmological campers would say, 'God is the final and ultimate cause of the cosmos!'
 - Moving a bit away from the natural world, we come to our last two arguments. They are the moral and ontological arguments for God. Being the easier of the two, we'll start with the moral argument.
 - Again having its roots in the works of Aquinas and being easy to understand, the moral argument for the existence of God declares that humans understand morality because God is the ultimate measuring stick.
 - To drive this home, let's do a little exercise. I'm going to say a thing, and you decide whether it's good or bad. Don't over think it; just say the first thing that pops into your mind. Good or bad. Here we go…
 - Feeding starving children. Good or bad? . . . I'm guessing you said, 'good.'
 - A king taxing starving people . . . I'm guessing you said, 'bad!'
 - Now here's the question that the moral argument begs. If I've never met you, how did I guess what you were going to say? Why do we both have the same ideas of good or bad? To this, the moral argument proponents would answer, 'God!' We understand morality because, whether we admit it or not, we use God's perfection as the gauge for everything else. We recognize evil because it so sharply contrasts his perfection.
 - The ontological argument asserts God, being defined as most great or perfect of all beings, must exist, since a God who exists is greater than a God who does not. Like I said, it's pretty heavy stuff! Let's break it down.
 - When Saint Anselm of Canterbury authored the ontological argument, he defined God as an unmatched Supreme Being. He asserted that all humans share this concept of God. For instance, even atheists who don't believe in God are busy trying to prove that this definition of God doesn't exist. They're not arguing against a tiny little inconsequential being; they're arguing against the idea of the Supreme.
 - Now, this is where it gets really tricky. Anselm made his point that all humans share the same concept of God. In other words, we all think of God as some sort of Supreme Being. Now, since we're all able to think of God as a Supreme Being, then there must be something greater than the idea of this Supreme Being. In other words, reality is always better than thought or idea! So, if we humans are able to grasp the idea of God, then there must be a real God that is better than the idea, since only a real Supreme Being can be greater than the idea of a Supreme Being.
 - Stating it as simply as possible, the ontological argument asserts that since we all share the idea of a Supreme Being, there must be a real Supreme Being that is greater than our idea. If not, where did we all get the idea from in the first place?

#### Reconciling God and Evil
 - It's a theme that's played out in books and on the big screen. Man's life is going well; man believes in God. Same man faces horrible tragedy; same man rejects God. Like I said, it's a refrain that's played out for generations, and it stems from one question, 'How can there be a God when there's so much evil in the world?'
 - Today's lesson will explore this age-old conundrum of reconciling God and the problem of evil. It's a problem that some atheists, or those who refute the existence of God, use to validate their disbelief.
 - Now, before we go any further, there is one thing we must admit. Today's lesson will not even come close to solving this problem. Coming to an answer requires self-study and reflection. Instead, we're going to lay out the parameters of the problem as it pertains to philosophy. Then we'll go over a few answers postulated by some rather famous scholars.
 - First, let's start with the problem. Stating it very simply, it goes like this: How does one rectify the existence of God with the obvious existence of evil? In other words, if there really is an all-powerful God, why wouldn't he wipe out things like evil and disease? Also, if he is supposed to be good, why doesn't his compassion stop the world's suffering?
 - Now that we've laid out the problem, let's look at some answers. For starters, the practice of trying to rectify God and evil is known as theodicy. With this in mind, let's look at three rather famous philosophers who practiced it. They are Augustine, Irenaeus, and John Hick.
 - As probably the most famous, we'll start with Augustine. To sum up his views, Augustine believed evil was a product of man, not God. Linking his ideas back to the Garden of Eden, Augustine asserted that God created perfection, but the free will of man, of Adam and Eve, messed it up. Putting it in modern terms, Augustine might say evil is a work of the children and not the parent.
 - Our next philosopher is Irenaeus. Interestingly, Irenaeus believed evil exists to accomplish soul making. In other words, evil is a tool used to make us better people. It's a means to an end on our journey toward maturity.
 - This brings us to our last philosopher, John Hick. Unlike the other two, Hick asserted that humans are still in the process of being created. To use a famous kids' song, God's not finished with me, yet! Sort of like a baby, humanity is still in the growing process. Earth is a workshop where souls are still being formed. When the product is finally perfected, evil will disappear.

