### Andrew garber
### January 19, 2023
### Religion and Philosophy


#### Religion
 - Besides the family, religion is one of the largest social institutions that sociologists study. Throughout history, religion has been a central part of all known human societies. Sociologists study religion to understand religious experiences around the world and how religion is tied to other social institutions. They study religion objectively, and their purpose is not to judge. They do not attempt to say whether any religion is right or wrong. Instead, sociologists try to determine why religions take a particular form and how religious activities affect society as a whole.
 - Religion can be defined as a social institution involving beliefs and practices based on the sacred. To better understand this definition, let's also define two other terms: profane and sacred. We define most objects or experiences as profane, which is an ordinary element of everyday life. Objects, like beds, computers, and phones, are profane, as are experiences, like going to work or brushing our teeth. Beyond the profane, most of us also consider some things sacred, which is set apart as extraordinary or holy and worthy of honor. Objects, like the Bible and the cross, and experiences, like taking communion, are sacred to some people.
 - The dichotomy between the profane and the sacred is at the heart of religion. However, the objects or experiences that are considered profane and sacred aren't universal. For example, although most people regard most books as profane, there are others that certain religions consider sacred: Muslims venerate the Qur'an, and Christians revere the Holy Bible. Regarding experiences, Muslims remove their shoes before entering a mosque to avoid defiling a sacred place with shoes that have touched the profane ground outside.
 - Religion is a matter of faith, which can be defined as belief based on conviction rather than scientific evidence. Faith is frequently portrayed through the use of rituals and totems.
 - Rituals are formal, ceremonial behaviors that represent religious meanings. Rituals rely on symbols to convey their meaning and to reinforce that meaning for participants. Reading from the Torah during a bar mitzvah and touching the mezuzah when going through a doorway are examples of rituals in Judaism.
 - A totem is an object that is collectively sacred. Totems frequently symbolize both a group of people and that which the group considers sacred. For example, the image of the Buddha often serves as an icon representing the Buddhist tradition and community. 
 - A church can be defined as a type of religious organization that is well integrated into the larger society. Churches have well-established rules and expect their leaders to be formally trained, educated, and/or ordained. Churches are integrated into the larger society in that they exist within neighborhoods and communities. It is commonplace for people to be members of churches and to treat the church as an ordinary aspect of life, just like work or school.
 - On the opposite end of the religious continuum is a sect, which is a type of religious organization that stands apart from the larger society. It's typically a small, exclusive fellowship of people seeking spiritual perfection. The leader of a sect is not required to be trained or ordained, but instead, must exhibit great charisma and act as a role model. To members of a sect, religion is not just one aspect of life but a doctrine for how to live. A sect is typically formed as a breakaway group from an established religious organization who wants to practice a 'pure' form of that religion. Often, a sect discourages its members from extensive participation in mainstream society because they consider the world outside the sect to be corrupt and sinful.
 - Often confused with sects are cults, but they are not the same thing. A cult is a religious organization that is largely outside a society's cultural traditions. Where a sect spins off from a conventional religious organization, a cult typically forms around one highly charismatic individual who offers a new revelation or insight. Cults typically have a bad name in our society, and popular culture has come to define the word as a religion that has obscene or taboo practices - or are even evil. The suicides of the members of Heaven's Gate served to reinforce this negative image. In short, calling any religious organization a cult today amounts to dismissing its members as crazy.
#### Atheism, Agnosticism, and Theism
 - Theism, in its most basic form, is belief that one or more deities exist. The term theism derives from the Greek word 'theos,' which means 'god.' Theists include all individuals who believe in one god or multiple gods. The majority of the world's population are theists.
 - Theism is the core of most religions; the beliefs of Christianity, Judaism, and hundreds more are theistic. Of course, the deity or deities they believe in and how each group of people practice their beliefs are different. It's important to note that someone who is theistic isn't necessarily a member of a certain religion.
 - Often contrasted with theism is atheism, which is disbelief of the existence of any deity. The term derives from the Greek word 'atheos,' which means 'without god(s).' Atheism is on the rise all over the world. According to a 2012 global poll, approximately 13% of the world's population are self-reported atheists.
 - Like theists, individual belief (or disbelief) systems of atheists can vary. Although many people think of atheists as anti-religion, that is not always the case. Many atheists believe that there are no forces or entities which exist outside of physical nature. At the same time, atheism is actually part of some nontheistic religions like Buddhism, which believe in mystic forces, just not god(s
 - The last concept we'll discuss in this lesson is agnosticism, which is the view that the existence of any deity is unknown and unknowable. Where theism and atheism deal with belief, agnosticism deals with knowledge. The term comes from the Greek words 'a' (without) and 'gnosis' (knowledge). Agnosticism, then, literally means 'without knowledge' of the existence of gods.
 - Agnostics include all individuals who claim it's not possible to say with certainty that deities exist. That is, they do not attempt to claim if gods exist or do not exist because it cannot be proven either way. Agnosticism is not exclusive from theism or atheism. That is, someone can be an agnostic theist or an agnostic atheist. Although it may seem confusing at first, remember that theism and atheism deal with belief and agnosticism deals with knowledge. The two can be combined.

#### Polytheism and Monotheism
 - When looking at the different kinds of theism, or belief in deities, the first big question we have to ask is this: how many deities are there? That's an important question! In many cultures, the universe was seen as being filled with divine forces. We call a religion that worships multiple deities a polytheistic religion. So, polytheism is the belief in more than one god.
 - For a great example, let's look to the ancient Greeks. The Greeks had a full pantheon of gods and goddesses, each of which was responsible for different things. Rather than offering all prayers to a single deity, the Greeks would ask specific deities for help with specific issues. For example, a blacksmith might pray to Hephaestus to bless his forge and the business he did there, while a midwife might pray to Eileithyia for wisdom while delivering a baby. You would pray to one deity for good crops and another for a safe voyage across the sea.
 - A polytheistic religion recognizes many deities, but not all religions are like this, and so this is where our other main category of religions comes into play. A monotheistic religion is a religion that worships a single deity. While polytheism divides the supernatural forces of the universe between many gods, in monotheism a single god is responsible for everything.
 - In the ancient world, one of the most influential monotheistic religions was Zoroastrianism, a religion native to West Asia. Zoroastrianism challenged other religions of the area by claiming that a single deity was responsible for creating and reigning over the universe, named Ahura Mazda. Instead of praying to many gods, the practitioners of Zoroastrianism gave all their prayers and devotion to Ahura Mazda, which allowed for a more centralized religion. (Zoroastrianism was most notably the religion of Iran, or Persia. Think of Khosrau Anushirawan, the greatest king of them and rival of Justinian.)
 -It's worth noting that in each of the three Abrahamic religions that we just named, you may hear people praying to someone other than the main deity. For example, in Roman Catholicism (a denomination of Christianity), there are many prayers to holy figures known as saints. So, is Catholicism really polytheistic? No, and this is an important distinction to make.
 - Monotheistic religions can recognize other sacred figures, often prophets or teachers who achieved a high degree of spiritual enlightenment. Monotheistic religions can even claim that these figures are capable of intervening in your daily life to answer your prayers. But, they are not gods. In monotheistic religions like Christianity, there is still only one deity, one god who is in charge of everything.
 - Similarly, many polytheistic religions have a deity who is seen as the chief of the gods or the supreme deity. For the Greeks, it was Zeus. However, even though a religion like this recognizes one deity as the most powerful, it is still not a monotheistic religion. In the ancient Greek religion, Zeus was chief of the gods, but the other divine figures were actually gods. In Catholicism, saints, prophets, and angels may intercede in human lives, but they are not gods. 

#### Islam, Judaism, and Christianity
 - As far as number of followers, Judaism doesn't even make the top ten religions. Jews make up a majority of the population in only one country - Israel. However, Judaism is one of the oldest religions still existing today and has special importance to the U.S. because the largest concentration of Jews is found in North America.
 - A central religious belief of Judaism is the covenant, a special relationship with the one and only God, by which the Jews became God's chosen people. The covenant, which is symbolized by circumcision, is an agreement of the Jews to follow God's Ten Commandments. As reward, the Jewish people would possess the Holy Land and be blessed with prosperity and victory over their enemies.
 - Jewish identity arises primarily from the culture and traditions of their people. Jewish beliefs vary widely on theological matters. However, there are three main 'movements' that represent certain theological beliefs: Orthodox Judaism, which is very traditional; Reform Judaism, which is the most liberal; and Conservative Judaism, which is the middle ground between the other two denominations.
 - More than this, many Jews believe themselves "cultural Jews" - following in the cultural dimension but not following the rigorous codes of the religion.
 - The second monotheistic religion we'll discuss is the largest. Christianity is the most widespread religion in the world, with two billion followers - that's almost one-third of the people on the planet! However, most Christians live in Europe or the Americas. As already noted, Christianity believes in the same God as Judaism. Yet, Christianity views Him as a Holy Trinity :
 - God, the Creator and Heavenly Father
 - Jesus Christ, Son of God and Redeemer
 - The Holy Spirit, a Christian's personal experience of God's presence
 - Christianity began as a sect of Judaism. However, it was based on the life and teachings of Jesus of Nazareth, a Jewish prophet who spread a message of personal salvation. Christians believe that Jesus is divine and the savior of humanity. During the first century, Jesus was sentenced to death by crucifixion. His death is considered the reason for salvation and eternal life for all people, through divine grace. This is why the cross became a sacred Christian symbol. According to Christian belief, three days after his execution, Jesus arose from the dead, showing that he was the Son of God.
 - The sacred text of Christianity is the Holy Bible, which consists of the Old Testament (the Hebrew Bible) and the New Testament - which, among other things, narrates the life of Jesus. As mentioned earlier, the Ten Commandments play a fundamental role in Christian doctrine. Most Christians believe those who accept salvation through Jesus and follow the Ten Commandments will be rewarded in Heaven. Sinners who do not repent or who reject God will be punished in Hell.
 - The final monotheistic religion we'll discuss in this lesson is Islam, which is the second largest religion in the world. Followers of Islam are called Muslims. Although there are many Muslims who live in the Middle East, there are also high populations in Northern Africa, Indonesia, and the U.S.
 - Muslims believe in God, who revealed himself to Muhammad, the prophet. The sacred text of Islam is the Qur'an, which, according to Islam belief, is the word of Allah (their name for God) as transmitted through Muhammad. Unlike Jesus to Christians, Muhammad is not a divine being to Muslims. But, similar to Christianity, Islam holds people accountable to Allah for their deeds on Earth. Those who live obediently will be rewarded in Heaven, and evildoers will suffer unending punishment.
 - The word 'Islam' means 'submission,' which reflects the doctrine of submitting to the will of Allah. Muslims follow the Five Pillars of Islam:
 - Recognizing Allah as the one, true God and Muhammad as God's messenger
 - Daily prayer
 - Alms-giving to the needy
 - Fasting during the month of Ramadan (the ninth month of the Islamic calendar)
 - Pilgrimage to the Sacred House of Allah in Mecca