### Andrew Garber
### September 16 2022

#### Assignment Rubric 
 - To combine with your online study of types of governments, using two of those types - republican and parliamentary representative democracies - please provide streamlined text to include: 
 - Simplified but clear definition of each that show their distinctive qualities, with the ideal (paper definition version) pros and cons of each;
 - Identifying global example of each and indicating it's roots in that country (is it a new democracy from an overthrown dictator? Or a 500 year old establishment?Or similar tale).... Why did they choose that form? YOU CANNOT USE U.S. AND U.K. !!! 
 - And doing some research  comment on when that form of government was perfect for an event in that country OR exactly the WRONG version ..... Could another form have been better ? Was the situation unique or the government flawed? 
 - Cite sources at the end.

Countries chosen: France, a semi-presidential unitary representative democracy(a relative outlier, though with some considerable benefits) and Israel - a parliamentary system with a number of smaller political parties and a coalition style.
#### Assignment 

Modern systems of government across the world are not uniform, even nations with the same type of government frequently have major differences in the structure and authority of the government due to local differences in both culture and the situation in which the government was founded. Democracies are a system of government where the states' power is derived from the people, and in the modern era, this power is granted through the system of indirect democracy, though how they grant this power and what is done with it varies widely by nation. Two nations that have taken significantly different approaches to creating democratic governmental systems are France and Israel, two nations with histories of widespread political violence and threats by foreign powers but chose their variations of indirect democracy for very different reasons. Both nations provide insights into maximizing the effectiveness of government and increasing citizen participation in a modern era of rampant factionalism and increased polarization.

France has a history of governmental change almost unparalleled in human history, and this incredible historical governmental diversity is instrumental in understanding the reasons by which the modern French Constitution was created. France, or more correctly, the Fifth French Republic was founded in 1958 by former French Resistance Leader and provisional head of government Charles de Gaulle who following a return to politics after the May 1958 insurrection in Algeria-still a French colony-   formed a new government through the passing of the constitutional law of 1958 and set about drafting a new constitution. The constitution changed France from a parliamentary system similar to the United Kingdom, much of the Commonwealth, Israel, and several other nations to a dual-executive system whereby a President was elected and a Prime Minister appointed by him who oversees the implementation of legislation.  The legislature was a bicameral one similar to the United Kingdom and the United States, but limited legislative powers were given to the President, namely the ability to call for a referendum irrespective of parliament for the citizenry to vote on bills at his discretion. The circumstances by which this constitution is clearly shown in the system that was implemented, as the history of political violence and sensitive topics like decolonization required a stronger executive head in the mind of de Gaulle, a man who had throughout his life proven himself exactly that kind of character, and an extremely popular one among the French people for it. The greater executive independence has proven a major benefit to French Government since its inception in 1958, as France has maintained its position as a leader in European and world affairs largely through the influence of its leaders and has largely maintained economic and societal strength during decades of increasing global division. There are downsides to this strong executive system, one of the most influential of these being the system of "cohabitation" that occurs when the parliament is controlled by the opposite party than the President, leading to the appointment of a Prime Minister of the opposite party. This introduces an inherent conflict of interest between the President and Prime Minister who should work closely together to maximize efficiency. In practice, the President takes a back seat on domestic issues and focuses on foreign affairs, though this infighting during several periods of "cohabitation" have proven damaging to the government and civil system in France. The other main downside of the strong Presidential system is similar to the issues with "cohabitation", unlike the US which is effectively locked in a two-party system due to how election rules work, France uses a two-round runoff voting system, this frequently leads to the third or fourth choice of many voters being elected President, a notable example of this took place in the most recent election when Macron won an overwhelming victory over the nationalist and euro-skeptic Le Pen, though without much enthusiasm from the voters.

Israel's history is marked by centuries of different groups fighting over its territories, from the Romans of antiquity to the crusades that followed and the conflicts of the modern era the territory that now encompasses the nation of Israel has been pockmarked by the effects of this legacy of strife and is clearly reflected in the government of the Israeli state. Unlike most nations in the modern era, Israel does not actually have a single written document that defines its governmental system, a constitution. Instead, the government is predicated upon a set of basic laws that have been expanded by decades of legislation and executive orders. These measures effectively operate as the nation's constitution, but the concept of a set of basic laws that largely define the scope and purpose of a government is a novel system and gives other laws that may follow a basis to build on to better actualize the basic laws in a changing world. Unlike France, Israel is a parliamentary state headed by a prime minister with a large number of political parties. Israel's legislative body, the Knesset is a single-chamber legislature with 120 members who are elected on a 4-year cycle, though if a vote of no-confidence is held this can result in an early election being called. Israel's election system is also unique in that it uses a proportional representation system, where a party receives a number of seats proportional to the percentage of the vote received. While this creates a system where "party lines" are drawn more saliently it also leads to great division and governmental coalitions that can fall apart at a moment's notice, leaving the government vulnerable to shocks domestically and from abroad. The prime minister is selected from the coalition that is formed following an election, leading to an opaqueness to the political process that while valuable in forming these coalitions makes confidence in the incorruptibility of elected officials more suspect. Also uncommon in many democracies around the world is the largely secular nature of Israeli politics, as Israel was conceived as a Jewish state that in its earliest days had to fight against Arab invasion there has been a strong sense of Zionism that has ingrained itself into the political process and a counter to this of a coalesced Arab party(Joint List). The Israeli system is one of the more complicated governmental structures of all modern democracies across the world, as a large number of major political parties and the proportional representational system can lead to both political parties that better reflect the individual views of certain citizens, unlike two-party states like the United States where many citizens pick the one they disagree with less, but also leads to frequent government chaos when a ruling coalition falls apart due to outside influences.

Comparing these two nations' structures to determine a "better" structure is impossible as the situations that are presented to each country are almost diametrically opposed, the Fifth French Republic was founded largely due to the chaos caused by the nation's decolonization efforts and the continuing recovery from occupation during the Second World War while Israel was founded as a formerly colonized state with enemies pressing down on all sides. Both nations have attributes that a new democratic nation could draw upon to maximize its government's efficiency and national stability, most notably the dual-executive system used by France with a modification that instead of being of whatever party is in legislative control is more like a more powerful version of the United States vice-president, acting as a primary advocate of the President's legislative goals. From Israel, the concept of basic laws, even if just included in the constitution of a nation provides complete clarity as to the focus and goals of the nation so that any laws advocated by the politicians of a nation can clearly be seen to be in accordance or in opposition to these fundamental laws. Democracy is the political application of human willpower and collaboration, and as people change the world the governments of the people must change too, some of the central ideas underpinning French and Israeli democracies should be drawn upon to ensure that the government of the people continues to serve the people.
#### Sources
 - #### **France**
 - [About-France](https://about-france.com/political-system.htm)
 - [WorldPopulationReview](https://worldpopulationreview.com/countries/france/government)
 - [European Union Committee of The Regions](https://portal.cor.europa.eu/divisionpowers/Pages/France-Introduction.aspx)
 - [Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/place/France/Government-and-society)
 - #### **Israel**
 - [Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/place/Israel/Government)
 - [Israeli Consulate](https://embassies.gov.il/la/AboutIsrael/State/Pages/Israeli-democracy.aspx)
 - [MyJewishLearning](https://www.myjewishlearning.com/article/israeli-politics/)
 - [PeaceNow](https://peacenow.org/images/IPSB.pdf)
 - [Israeli Science and Technology Directory](https://www.science.co.il/gov/Government.php)