Professor Freeman's guest lecture on foreign aid projects was fascinating, especially in the context of the current state of politics about foreign aid. I really appreciated that he didn't try to justify the current state of foreign aid(specifically in reference of USAID) in order to make the case for not cutting it at all, instead he made strong criticisms of the foreign aid establishment generally and USAID in particular while still making recommendations for how to improve the situation.

Escaping a conversation about politics is impossible here, but his specific, actionable critiques of the current state of foreign aid were really interesting. His point about how a beneficiaries-first aid structure was fascinating, because while obviously those who put the money up have rights to how it is spent, if the intention is genuinely to help the beneficiaries, designing aid programs in a way that is most effective at doing that instead of the accomplishment of an arbitrary metric is really important. His further point about how a lot of aid projects are designed around a completion metric was interesting - this is something that I think is partially a simple human-nature thing, where the subjective "completion" of a project to its actual aims is simply less satisfying than hitting 10/10 on a metric. Fighting this is really important because when the metric becomes the end-all-be-all, the actual aims of the aid are lost.

I think he has a good point about the band-aid nature of a lot of aid work in regards to agricultural work - things like anti-erosion work only being worthwhile to farmers in these really impoverished places is worth it(because of the general marginal nature of their livelihoods) is when they are being paid/donated materials to do it. These kinds of long-term agricultural benefits simply can’t be realized because of short-term constraints on their survival. This connects well to the later point he made about how things are so marginal in many impoverished communities(Haiti for example) that any aid offer is so asymmetrically attractive to even a more “regular” low-income area of the world that it becomes almost coercive(obviously it is still voluntary, but even small amounts of aid are vast amounts of wealth compared to the state of rural Haiti). The leverage is so asymmetric that a higher standard of aid project construction is important to prevent negative externalities of the aid.

In conclusion, I think he has an interesting point of view on the challenges/systemic problems with foreign aid from inside the foreign aid complex - while I don’t personally agree with some of his justifications for further expansions of foreign aid, I do think he is correct in how he thinks aid should be restructured to a more on-the-ground metric of how it improves lives instead of a statistical metric for success. While not all aid is USAID, in the context of the current political crosshairs set on USAID, I think he made a really important point in giving definite critiques and recommendations for reforming the construction and operation of aid projects.
