Andrew Garber 
April 7-?
Honors Chemistry 10th
The chemistry, impact and economics of carbon-neutral fuels


#### Introduction

Climate change is an existential threat to humanity and every manner of solutions in all sectors of the economy  will have to go through drastic changes to save our planet and species. Despite rhetoric bemoaning the issue as a spoiler to whip the masses into hysteria, the issue is an ultimatum from our past choices and the choices we make today and every day from now on will decide whether or not we deserve to have a future. Transportation as a whole is one of the most important sectors of our economy, linking nations and peoples together in ways that combine the collective consciousness of humanity. Unfortunately, transportation is an intensely emissions intensive industry combining to 14% of global emissions in 2014 according to the US Environmental Protection Agency. Thus, lowering the emissions from transportation including rail, road, sea, and air is a major challenge for the protection of our future. Petroleum based fuels are by far the most commonly used power sources for vehicles of all kinds across the world, making them constant and hard to replace emitters of Carbon Dioxide, Methane and Nitrous Oxide. One of the most potentially impactful solutions to the transportation emissions problem is carbon neutral petroleum fuels. 

Carbon neutral petroleum based fuel sources are an attractive proposition for industry, government and consumers alike due to not requiring special infrastructure like car charging stations for electric cars and not requiring changes in manufacturing for the engines of cars, allowing carbon neutral petroleum fuels to be a great interim solution for transportation emissions. Instead of requiring the continued extraction of crude oil, an environmentally taxing process leading to frequent environmental damage and the eventual outpouring of emissions that comes from the consumption of such fuels, carbon neutral fuels can be made from captured CO2 using renewable hydrogen and energy. One of the biggest breakthroughs in this area has come from a team at [Oxford](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41467-020-20214-z) who published a paper reporting a synthetic process to convert carbon dioxide into aviation grade jet fuel using a revolutionary and inexpensive iron based catalyst, allowing for mass production. 


#### Process

The process pioneered by the team at Oxford, currently the highest efficiency process published publicly uses a revolutionary Iron-Manganese-Potassium catalyst made using the Organic Combustion Method, which can hydrogenate carbon dioxide to the purity of jet fuel at a conversion rate of 38.2% which is extraordinarily efficient. Hydrogenation is the process of reducing or saturating, as in this case, organic compounds almost always done with a catalyst. In the process, other valuable gases and materials are made such as methane, ethylene which is useful in the chemicals industry, propylene which is useful as a fuel, and butene which is useful for rubber production. These petrochemicals are currently only made via the extraction of crude oil, so this also represents a major source of emissions reduction. 'Jet Fuel' is the common term for the linear and branched alkanes, compounds that are made entirely of carbon and hydrogen atoms bonded via single bonds, and cycloalkanes which are saturated hydrocarbons arranged in a ring all bonded via single bonds. The typical length for these chains to maximize efficiency in combustion is C8-C16, while they can run as long as C18. However the process of converting Carbon Dioxide, which is a thermodynamically stable and chemically inert molecule which are two of the reasons it is so difficult to deal with as a pollutant, into hydrocarbon chains is extremely difficult and quite energy intensive. The more efficient of the two major processes, which is completed via reducing CO2 to CO and hydrogenating CO to longer chain hydrocarbons and then using industrial processes such as distillation. This process is much more difficult to complete than the less efficient process, and the success and furthering of the method is dependent on a cheap but highly efficient catalyst which the Oxford team has found in the Fe-Mg-K catalyst. As previously stated, the catalyst that the Oxford team pioneered has a CO2 conversion rate of 38.2% and of these converted molecules 47.8% are converted to the optimal jet-fuel range of C8-C18. This is a groundbreaking discovery, and with a reaction time of only 20 hours which is comparable to the distillation times for crude oil makes it highly competitive. 

#### Impact

The impact of sustainable, carbon-neutral gasoline fuels on the aviation industry in both environmental impact and economic viability for the technology is incredible. Aviation is a major consumer of petroleum based fuels but compared to ground based transportation and ship based transportation it is minor, and as the smallest of these industries and the one with the fewest options for decarbonization they will be the proving ground for the technology. The [Atmosfair project](https://www.dw.com/en/sustainable-aviation-fuel-power-to-liquid/a-59398405) in Germany is constructing a plant in northern Germany to produce about 1 ton of synthetic kerosene a day. While the process that the Atmosfair project is using is far different from that being developed by the scientists at Oxford, they are using hydrogen and carbon dioxide both captured by renewable sources and used to supplement current aviation fuels up to 50%. However big hurdles remain before even the smallest industry to be affected by carbon neutral fuels can be made to use them. The process that Atmosfair is using, one of only a few carbon neutral fuel plants currently operational is highly energy intensive and in a nation like Germany with both high energy consumption rates and a lack of zero emission energy options, it is not feasible to increase the demand on a small supply of zero emissions energy. The Atmosfair plant, which only produces about 1 ton of carbon neutral fuel per day was a highly capital intensive project and building even larger ones would require significant investment. 

If greater zero emissions energy sources can be found in nations like Germany and production scaled up, the impact on the aviation industry would be immense. While road based passenger and freight transport options have a number of zero emissions options, including electric vehicles and hydrogen vehicles and sea based transport has solar, hydrogen and wind based options the aviation industry is significantly lacking in terms of options for decarbonization. While companies have proposed hydrogen based options for powering aircraft, here have been considerable safety concerns and little development has occurred leaving carbon neutral fuels as the primary options for the environmental future of the aviation industry.

The impact of sustainable, carbon-neutral fuels on the passenger vehicle market could potentially be significant if the costs associated with the production of these fuels is significant diminished in its adoption in the aviation industry. The aviation industry is clearly the first major industry that should adopt these fuels, and the entirety of any limited production should be dedicated to them however if the technology can be expanded and move to mass production such that it would be viable for passenger vehicle emissions it could prove an excellent transition fuel as passenger vehicles move from fossil fuel fuels to electric or hydrogen options. The battery production capacity and associated supply chains are not well developed yet, and batteries are necessary for energy storage in renewable projects like solar and wind farms, thus while the supply of batteries is constrained if the passenger vehicle industry can drastically reduce its emissions through the adoption of carbon neutral fuels then the transition to a carbon neutral world can be accelerated. While few plans have been made available for the production capacity that the passenger vehicle industry would require, with over a billion passenger vehicles in the world, if the mass production techniques are pioneered in the aviation industry where slightly higher costs are acceptable and less tonnage is required then it could be an effective interim alternative.

The freight vehicles, specifically large trucks that move almost all of the goods we use every day from ports to stores or more regional delivery centers are the second most impactful sector for the use of carbon neutral fuels. While battery and hydrogen options are being developed just as with the passenger vehicle market, several of the limitations that are specific to the freight industry make carbon-neutral fuels one of the best options for the future of the industry. Due to the large weights of these vehicles and the long distances they have to travel energy density is a key metric for any kind of fuel that they would have, and the energy density of batteries does not currently compete with that of gasoline and hydrogen does not have the manufacturing or logistics infrastructure currently available to make it broadly useful. Thus, if sufficient manufacturing capacity of zero emissions petroleum based fuels can be made available they can provide an excellent option for the future of the freight industry, providing lower costs and zero emissions for the transportation of goods. Major challenges stand in the way of that however, just the same as passenger vehicles.

