#### Andrew Garber
#### May20
#### Nuclear Energy

Chernobyl, Three Mile Island, Fukushima - places that bring to mind thoughts of imminent disaster for nuclear power plants everywhere, with meltdowns as catastrophic as the bombs we have only dropped twice: this is a delusion. In the events of Chernobyl which is thought of as perhaps the worst nuclear disaster in history, was predicated upon an inadequate design and picking political loyalty over training for staffing, 39 people died. Jellyfish kill more people every year. Fukushima, a nuclear disaster which only came about due to a massive confluence of circumstance including one of the biggest earthquakes in history, a tsunami and the decay heat not being diminished quickly enough, killed only one person due to the radiator exposure though approximately 573 died due to panic from the evacuation and damaged infrastructure. At Three Mile Island, the U.S's greatest nuclear failure which set the trend for flat-lining construction for decades: no deaths. Nuclear energy is one of the most misunderstood technologies of the modern world, conceptualized due to dramatization from hollywood and the media, it is the safest form of energy generation currently which can be proven via its chemistry to be both safe and economically viable.

The possibility of generating power for nuclear fission began with the discovery of uranium, but truly became a concept worth developing when Enrico Fermi showed that neutrons could split atoms providing worthwhile amounts of energy. In 1942, under direction from the U.S government and working with experts from dozens of laboratories and universities he led a team that achieved the first nuclear chian reaction under bleachers at the University of Chicago. This led to the development of the nuclear bombs that were initially tested in Utah and Nevada, and eventually dropped on Hiroshima and Nagasaki. However the men standing by on that rainy day in Chicago never took their eye off the prize they were seeking, the production of huge quantities of power from nuclear fission. The creation of the Atomic Energy Commission in 1946 fostered the creation of nuclear energy for civilian purposes, the U.S's first reactor produced energy on December 20th 1951, only 9 years after Fermi's proving of a nuclear chain reaction. The process for a nuclear chain reaction is deceptively simple, the nucleus of an atom is held together and when bombarded with a neutron it can be split apart. Smaller atoms are held together with more force because there is less to hold together, so very large atoms like uranium are extremely good for fission because the amount of energy required to split them is low and the amount of energy produced is high. In the process of them being broken, more neutrons are released which then creates an exponential chain reaction causing huge amounts of heat energy to be released. The chain reaction can be effectively controlled via 'control rods' that can be maneuvered either farther in or out to absorb more or less neutrons, dynamically controlling the reaction rate. The rapid advancement of civilian nuclear technologies was spearheaded first by Eisenhower's 'Atoms for Peace" program, and corresponding programs across the iron curtain. The Soviets were the first to demonstrate both fast breeder reactors and fast neutron reactors, while the American's developed the pressurized water reactor which instead of heating water directly is a two staged process which increases both safety and efficiency. All waste from nuclear plants is not created equal however, high-level waste is mostly spent fuel and will remain radioactive for thousands of years but in specific breeder reactors it can be repurposed as fuel. Transuranic waste is almost entirely waste from elements heaver than uranium, such as plutonium and is mostly from various weapons, it is the least common. By far the most common waste is low-level, it is generated from both civilian and defense applications, large amounts of it are from medical applications and it decays rapidly making it easily disposable.

The challenge of conquering climate change on Earth is a monumental one. Making a firm multi-national commitment to the construction of waves of new next-generation nuclear power plants is the only way to ensure that clean baseline power can be provided to the grid so that other technologies that will help defeat climate change can be powered without continually adding more carbon emissions to the atmosphere. World energy consumption is expected to increase by 47% by 2050 according to the EIA, and much of this increase will be due to new technologies like electric vehicles that will put a greater strain on the grid and will also be from developing nations in Africa and South East Asia dramatically increase their power use due to large portions of their populations pulling above the poverty line. Without clean and continuous power generation like that coming from nuclear power plants, these nations will either be forced to rely on intermittent power sources like solar and wind or if international punishments for carbon emissions become more stringent, they may be forced to limit energy production harming their economies and the people who need power to enhance their lives. While fears over nuclear power plants are common, the world leaders in nuclear power production: China, France and the U.S have extremely tough standards that plant operators need to meet, not one person in any of these countries which make up a majority of the worlds nuclear energy production have ever died from their plants. Of any highly developed nation, France has some of the lowest per-capita carbon emissions and lowest per-household electricity prices due to up to 80% of their energy coming from nuclear power plants. They are proof that continued investment and government encouraged research can help a nation without significant fossil fuel reserves maintain impressive energy security in the face of a worsening international energy situation.  

The most popular counter-argument to the expansion of nuclear power plant construction is the threat of impending meltdowns and disasters that will present large scale radiation threats to millions of people living near the plants. This can be disproved simply by looking at the circumstances that led to these disasters, and realizing that these are isolated incidents that modern regulations and safety infrastructure have made orders of magnitude less likely. Chernobyl, the hallmark of fear mongering in the debate over the expansion of nuclear power is frequently looked to by anti-nuclear advocates as proof that no matter what safety measures are put in place nuclear power plants simply represent a risk far too great to ever be considered as a major source of power. These narratives leave out the political motivations of the senior staff at the plant, who were appointed for their political expertise in collaboration with the soviet regime instead of their qualifications as operators of nuclear reactors. Also left out of the discussion are nuances of reactors design, at the time of the Chernobyl incident the reactor was decades old and should have been updated or replaced years before - factors also neglected by the Soviet government. The Fukushima disaster was prompted by the superbly rare confluence of one of the biggest earthquakes in human history, and the tsunami it prompted and an electrical malfunction caused by the flooding. This incident prompted new regulations from both Japan where the disaster took place and nations across the world as to the dangers of placing a nuclear power plant along an active fault line. Three Mile Island, the U.S's only major nuclear power incident was not a disaster in any sense - a cooling malfunction in part of the core of the #2 reactor led to heat build up and ended with the release of some radioactive gases, but not enough to go above background levels. This incident stopped construction and innovation in the U.S's nuclear power sector for decades, largely due to the media spin of it. Japan, China, France and the U.S have far more stringent requirements both of the staff working at the plants and the designs for the plants themselves incorporating lessons learned over decades of operations and from the incidents throughout the history of nuclear power.