Eldritch Foundry 
Started March 15 2022

Chapter 1

Krrchaaawww! Waking up to the sounds of platsteel groaning and alarms whirling is not what I wanted to hear during the first night, of my first trip on matador. While she had certainly looked impressive with huge mining robots hanging off all four mounting points when I had entered, apparently something was wrong with the navigation or control. When you run into an object in space, it has to be navigation or control. Or maybe I am just the bad luck charm, “Corry Heelan: Human Bad Luck Talisman” - sounds about right. Within the span of four cycles my parents had been convicted for weapons smuggling, all of our assets had been seized, I had been forced to choose between staying on a deadbeat station or getting a job, and I had convinced my girlfriend to run away for said job as well. So all is going well, or so I thought in my sleep-induced haze until I realized that the groaning sound hadn’t stopped.

As the emergency lights in the bunk room of matador finally came up to power and basked the room in a pale red glow the extent of whatever damage had occurred started to become apparent. Tablets and screens from workstations surrounding the bunks were spread about, personal belongings and knick-knacks that had once been little mementos for those on the ship had been tossed around and even some crew were spread on the floor. As I finally stood up, battling the dizzy headache that threatened to consume every inch of my body, I saw Ashley starting to rouse herself from the bed next to where I had been. Toby McGarry, the ship's engineer who normally ended up sleeping in the engineering bay anyway was stumbling from his door towards our door to hit the lights. On the floor in the hallway, Mikey Posen and Randy Tolven still seemed fast asleep, though with the noise, vibrations, and alarms I couldn’t guess how. 

Both Assistant Captain Perry and Captain Abel were firmly ensconced in their rooms in officer country, however, there was no way to know of their status until they made their selves known. As my headache began to fade, and the noise of the alarms suddenly shut off - well someone had to be on the bridge - I heard Ashley muttering to herself mostly incoherently. 

“How in the fucking hells of shit do we run into something in the middle of a fucking jump?” Yeah, and I sometimes wonder why Ashley is my girlfriend, it's because she has a fascinating vocabulary. Convincing her to run away with me to join the matador after my parents had, gone away, was just as easy as I had expected it to be. Her parents were frequently gone, participating in whatever activities, I never knew exactly what they did, leading to Ashley becoming quite the independent spirit. She was freakishly intelligent and dedicated to a fault, so my offer to get off Berk Station and go make something of our lives had been very well respected. Ironically even though it was my idea to try and sign on when the matador had shown up on Berk to offload their latest haul, due to her aptitude with computer systems(both straight and illicit on occasion) she had ended up getting a Class 4 job while I had been relegated to class 2. She had been offered a job working with Toby as a roboticist, making 4500 credits per cycle(a frankly ridiculous amount in my eyes, not that I was complaining). I had been given the title of “General Operations Assistant” under Assistant Captain Perry, which the crew described as a bit of a jack of all trades so that they could put me on the path to whatever I showed the most aptitude in. 
By the time Ashley had stumbled over to me, I was halfway through the room and desperately lurching towards the door so that I could get to the bridge. If we could get to the monitors on the bridge then maybe we could discover what the hell we had hit in a jump, not that I had ever heard of anybody doing that before but what else could have happened? Ashley’s assessment of the situation was because she was throwing her arm over my shoulder and walking towards the door when we came upon Randy on the floor. Randy, the ship’s pilot would be essential to whatever would happen next so waking him up and getting him to the bridge was critical - something I knew even after spending less than two standard days on the ship. When Ashley and I bent down to try and wake Randy from his apparent slumber, his whole body was cold, deathly cold. When it became apparent to both of us within seconds that Randy would never be waking from his slumber and our eyes made contact our plan of action became clear, we had to make sure that everybody was alive and uninjured. 

Rushing over to Mikey Posen, to check on him only made the situation more somber when it became apparent that his condition was a mirror of that of the other. The danger of the situation had not yet been detected in its entirety to that point, but it quickly made itself known. The terror of being stuck in a confined space, after suffering a collision with some other object in the vacuum of space in the middle of an asteroid field was not conducive to rational thinking so the fact that we made it to the bridge at all in an attempt to try and restore function to the ship was a small miracle. The sight of the bridge still intact was small recompense for the loss of two crew members but in a situation that dire I was more than happy to take what I could get. Both Assistant Captain Perry and Captain Abel were both manning their stations on the bridge, though the fact that they were visibly shaken was not surprising if not comforting. Toby Mcgarry had also somehow made it to the bridge after stumbling out of his room, what he was doing there instead of his habitat in engineering was still unknown to me but was a small matter in comparison. 

Seeing through the front metglass windows upon entering the bridge did nothing to alleviate the stress that had fallen over me, despite seeing on the monitors that we were somehow holding atmosphere in our craft.  In front of the windows was nothing but the electronics of some other vessel, not some random piece of debris or rock that had somehow folded itself into the subspace region of our jump but was a large station of some kind, holding the attention of all the crew gathered in the bridge. Matador had somehow entangled itself with this station and had dragged it to the end of the jump as a symbiotic entity. 
After trying, and failing, to fathom what the station was or how we could have merged with it I had no choice but to be the one to break the news about the fate of our crew. 

"Captain?" 

"I think we are past the formalities Corry, both you and Ashley are in this for the long haul with us at this point."
"Well Nelson, I am said to report that we appear to have lost two crew members. Both Mikey and Randy were cold and lacking a pulse when we found them, I think they were knocked out with the impact." 

When the news of the loss of two veteran crew members broke over Captian Abel and Assistant Captain Perry like a wave, they both slammed their palms into the foreheads and looked down in complete sync with each other. 

"Well without those two Dan, this is going to get a lot more difficult."

Assistant Captain Perry looked up at Ashley and me standing back, both staring at the ancient monstrosity that had been joined with our ship, seeing the innards of the massive station and the tendril-like arms that connected the outer rim of it in a configuration that was unmistakably used for smelting. The outer rims were used as collection points for the raw materials that were found in space, the arms were used as conveyance for those materials for the central control and smelter. Though it looked like it hadn't been used in at least a few hundred years, with parts and debris stuck on every side of it, it seemed small a small consolation that a smelter seemingly designed for asteroid processing had been our collision agent, it felt like nothing in comparison to the loss of two good men and potential friends.

	----------

Within moments of the arrival of the rest of the crew on the bridge, consisting of just Captian Abel, Assistant Captain Perry, Toby Mcgarry, Ashley, our sentient ship AI Tyro and me the full exhaustion that was inevitable after an event like that started to set in. We were all chugging caf as the first meeting of what we deemed the 'Mid Space Collision Survival Society' commenced, the plan of action that Captain Abel laid out was almost annoyingly simple. Ensure none of us were wounded, take healing measures if we were, catalog what we had, and explore the smelter we had named Smelty the Smelter to see if it could be brought operational. The best news that was not directly related to our continued breathing was the apparent survival of the mining robots attached to Matador, Seneca, and Algonquin. However, the long-range communication arrays, designed for communication with stations surrounding the Buxtion Asteroid Field had been flung off during the merging of Matador with Smelty the Smelter, which was not at all surprising considering they were mounted on the nose of the ship. 

Assistant Captain Perry had insisted that we all start cataloging our workstations while we waited for him to inspect us in the medbay, besides being Assistant Captain of Matador he was also the only certified medic on board. Captain Abel was the first to be inspected, while Ashley and I headed towards the bunkroom where we had both been working since our start on the ship only 2.5 standard days before. Any conversation between us was limited, as we were both trying to channel all of our strength into staying awake for long enough to catalog any possessions that could be useful for our continued survival and fall into bed. While writing down lists of Ashley's extensive collection of wires and assorted control components, I felt almost bad to be thinking about how the loss of two senior crew members and the general hard time that we would be entering could mean a massive boost to my career. If the smelter was at all functional, or a smelter at all, it would be necessary to run it to make parts to rebuild our systems enough to contact a station to facilitate our rescue. 

Rescue.

I hadn't thought about it as a rescue situation up until this point, we would repair and then we would leave, but with our permanent joining with Smelty the Smelter I had a sinking feeling that we were either going to have to build a new communications array or die trying. Before the existential thinking could drag me down into the rabbit hole any deeper, I was interrupted by a page on my tablet which we discovered thankfully still worked using constant assistance from Tyro. 
"Corry Heelan please report to the medical bay to make sure you aren't about to die - Perry"

The walk to the medbay was both uneventful and more difficult than expected, the walk from the bridge to the bunkroom where Ashley and I had been working had felt like I was floating - not entirely aware of the pain in the soles of my feet and the wringing in my head. I had been stationary enough during the inventory of our bunkroom that any injuries that could have been sustained during our violent accident did not have time to present themselves. By the time I stumbled into the medbay I was far past the decorum of a doctor's visit, the wringing in my head was far too loud and the pain throughout my legs far too acute. At the first glance, Assistant Captain Perry saw that something was not right, I was staggering from side to side and the world was not straight in my vision. Before any words had been spoken between us, Assistant Captain Perry had come to the silent understanding that I needed help and he half dragged my body over to the inspection bench. As the world started to right itself in my frame of view, an extension of Tyro's medical capabilities started to scan over me pronouncing in his deep yet slow voice, "Minor ligament damage in the back of the left shin. Minor concussion on the left front side of the head. Recommend anti-inflammatory and blood thinners via intravenous connection". 

Within two minutes of my diagnosis by Tyro, I was hooked up by Assistant Captain Perry and the first words of our medbay experience were spoken. 

"How did you not notice a concussion and your ligament being torn?"

"Well, it has been kind of an odd morning, Nelson."

"No doubt, but have you just been ignoring it?"

"No, from getting from my bunk to the bridge and back to our bunkroom I was barely even aware I was in my own body, let alone what it was feeling. From the bunkroom to here I realized something was up and by the end of my walk I don't think I could have made it 5 more steps."

"Well then, it is a good thing you got here. You are going to be spending the next two hours here, Ashley is next anyway so once she is examined I will tell her to come to see you here." Both Captain Abel and Assistant Captain Perry were aware of my relationship with Ashley, they prided themselves on having a policy of letting everyone build their future on the ship and didn't ask any direct questions about it but we both thought that withholding it would have been a mistake. They had proven worthy of that trust and had done nothing but allow us to work and live more closely together. 

As he stepped out of the examination room, the second wave of realization came over me that I was injured, if not significantly, on a floating wreck in the middle of an asteroid field and was not capable of walking. While I was intellectually aware that nothing terrible was about to befall us, the inability to get up and run(not that there was anywhere to run) rubbed the wrong way against some instinctual part of my psyche. Before I could think another thought about my inability to move, it was sealed by a rapid tiring from the drugs I had been given and within seconds I was out.

	---------- 

When I woke up an indeterminate amount of time later the first thing I saw was Ashley looking down at her tablet reading some kind of article, or more likely some kind of manual with more focus than I thought even possible. 
"Are you going to leave me for that manual?" I croaked out, still feeling the effects of sleep on the outside of my brain.
Ashley's head flicked over faster than I had ever seen it, obviously startled by my sudden awakening. When she saw that I was awake and seemingly okay, she took a breath before speaking, "You are an idiot. You can't do that."
"Do what?" 

"That you idiot, not saying anything about having a concussion and fucking up your leg." Once again the swearing, though it shouldn't have surprised me even a little bit. 

"I swear, I didn't even notice that anything was wrong. How long have I been asleep?"

"Not long, only 2.5 hours. Though when I heard that you were unconscious in the medbay I ran here faster than I thought I could."

"I appreciate the devotion, how did your medical exam go?"

"Idiot" she muttered to herself before coming back to the conversation, "It went fine. I am uninjured and in fine mental faculty, and just as beautiful as ever." She said the last part rhetorically, she had a tendency to be weirdly down on herself but I let it go for sake of avoiding the same conversation we had about it 30 times before.

"What's going on with the ship?"

"They finished the inventory while you were out, we have no shortage of parts to try and build something to help us get out of this situation but only a few months of food and even less water at current consumption. Captain Abel proclaimed rationed showering, and he didn't appreciate my joke about getting a two-for-one shower policy when they hired us."

"Really? I thought that was the whole reason he hired us." I joked back, trying to return levity to the conversation. 

"Shut up, but anyway we are going to get Seneca and Algonquin back out within the next two days, to try and pick up both some ice we can use for water and some material to test Smelty."

"Do we even know if it is a smelter?" 

"No, we haven't had any luck getting our systems connected with it yet, though its superstructure is certainly quite connected with us."
"Alright then, I am sure we will figure it out and if all else fails we will just break in and try to hook something up."
After that, we sat and read in companionable silence though I wasn't sure if she was supposed to be working I knew that if they needed her they would come to find her so I didn't worry about it. By the time that Assistant Captain Perry had returned to make sure that I was awake, I was thoroughly bored of sitting in an examination bed doing nothing. In reality, it hadn't been that long, but since our unfortunate mid-jump collision nothing about our situation screamed "reality". Tyro had already pronounced me recovered but due to some obscure policy in Tyro's programming he(Tyro decided that he wanted to be a he, I was told in no uncertain terms that calling him anything else would result in random alarms waking me up in the middle of the night) could not release me from the medical bay and that the lead medical expert, in this case, Assistant Captain Perry had to be the one to do so. Assistant Captain Perry then walked in, said "I pronounce you in fine health." and promptly walked straight out leaving me to be released by Tyro. 

Leaning on Ashley heavily, as my legs had not stopped being sore yet we stumbled to the bridge to get the updated rundown on our assignments. In the not even 6 hours since our collision the bridge had been turned into the war room of our continued survival, with every free screen and workstation moved into the singular command center for everyone to coordinate. Ashley had taken it upon herself to move both of our workstations to the far corner of the bridge so that we could also work alongside our remaining comrades. Both Assistant Captain Perry and Captain Abel were sitting in their stations on the bridge, with Toby presumably back in engineering readying both Seneca and Algonquin for their first trips to gather some of the materials we would need. 

"Dan?" Ashley asked as we stood in the entranceway of the bridge.

"Ya?" He replied, not even looking up from the monitor.

"What should we be doing? I mean, it isn't like we are going out to explore Smelty today." 

"Ashley, considering that you are capable of walking please go help Toby. Corry, considering that you are well, not, please sit at your workstation and go over the inventory to see if there are any hidden gems."

Ashley, seemingly expecting our assignments probably turned to the workstation and dragged me to the chair. With a simple, "Bye" she walked straight out the door. When I booted up my workstation, I saw a massive spreadsheet of items that had been logged since our collision. Every food item, every liter of water, every random part that Toby or Ashley had brought aboard was loosely categorized in a single spreadsheet. With the task in hand, I set to work scanning through the spreadsheet for anything that might prove particularly useful in either maintaining our survival or building something to communicate with the outside world. 5 stations encompassed the nearly 25 square AU area which ranged not far from the ecliptic plane. The largest of these was Linchpin Station which supposedly had one of the largest refineries in the entire federation and generate almost 5% of the entire metals output of the federation. It was the most frequent port of Matador due to its proximity to the densest part of the asteroid field, though when Matador had come to the area surrounding Berk Station it was supposedly due to a tip that there was a high concentration of titanium in the asteroids surrounding the station. After my first cursory glance through the spreadsheet, spending the most time under the group that they had helpfully titled Mechanical, I came to realize that while we didn't have much of anything that would help us build a communications array we did have a whole lot of electronics for repairing and upgrading our mining robots. With this information in hand, a new plan started to emerge in my head, communications at the speed of light were considered the bargain communications option while messenger drones of various jump speeds increased in price quite significantly. Federation Communications Systems was one of the largest companies in the federation, operating fleets of thousands of jump drones that ranged from 10 credits per AU to 1000 credits per AU depending on speed. While we certainly didn't have the parts to build a light-speed communications array or a messenger drone to deliver our SOS call, we did have to mining drones and the nearest station was only 2.5 AU away. As I went through the spreadsheet of every remaining object that might even be slightly relevant to our survival, a plan started to coalesce.

	----------
	
Chapter 2

As the rest filed into the bridge, Captain Abel took the reins for our second meeting of the 'Mid Space Collision Survival Society'. He asked everyone to report on their day, starting with himself, he talked about how he poked and prodded through the length of Tyro's sensors to ensure that if any slight degradation of our situation came to pass he would know about it. He also assured us that the software systems had not been damaged and that they would continue to function even with the damage to much of the peripheral hardware around the ship. 

Assistant Captain Perry had more to report about the extent to the hardware of the ship, saying that much of the external processing cores that he had been laced throughout the ship to maintain a distributed computing presence on board the ship, allowing individual processing units to be specialized on individual jobs had been destroyed and that the processing power that was needed for those jobs was being taken from our central processing unit. Tyro butted in at this point, something I had never heard him do before, bitching about the fact that some of his allotted processing power(he was paid in processor cycles a concept I knew very little about) had to be redistributed to complete general ship's duties. After letting him rant for a full 90 seconds, Assistant Captain Perry proceeded to tell him to shove it and moved on with his report. He said that even though much of the distributed processing power had been destroyed during the merging with Smelty the Smelter the amount of processing they needed to do most of the time also dropped due to not moving or doing much of anything. 

Toby, who was simultaneously one of the grumpiest and most optimistic people I have ever met(not sure how he pulled that mix off) then gave his report for him and Ashley on the general state of engineering systems. Propulsion, while not useful at this point still apparently worked. Matador's propulsion systems weren't useful for moving large distances due to having a jump drive to move large distances, the high mass of Matador, and the low necessity to move large distances under propulsion. However, I filed this knowledge away for my plan. He also said that life support systems were not harmed by the collision and that they had months worth of air and carbon scrubbing, food and water would be the main item determining their survival on Matador/Smelty the Smelter. He also said that the kitchen was in fine condition, after this everyone took a second to quietly think about those that they had lost in the collision not even a half-day earlier. It felt we had all gone to sleep in a different world than we found ourselves in, but Toby quietly picked up where he left off in an attempt to keep us from wallowing. He suggested that we all trade off cooking duties, left unsaid was that we wouldn't have to do so if Mikey was still with us, and said that we should get over to Smelty as fast as possible to see if anything was useful.

When Toby finished, all eyes on the bridge came to me expecting my report. I didn't know how to start, so I just dove right in. "I have a plan, it is more than a little far-fetched, and depending on what we find on Smelty it could change in an instant but after going through the inventory a thousand times I don't think we can make any kind of long-range communications array. The closest station from here is Linchpin and it is still 2.5 AU away and we just don't have the power to get that far. Matador's propulsion also isn't strong enough to get us there in any kind of reasonable time, so I think our best shot has to be to build ourselves a messenger drone. We have no resources for farming, and." 

Assistant Captain Perry cut in before I could start talking about getting water from ice asteroids, "Wait, how would we build a messenger drone?" 

I shot him a confused look because it was seemingly obvious, "We have two drones. We keep one for mining either just ice asteroids or every kind we need if Smelty the Smelter is a Smelter. The other one we strip down, see if we can get some of Matador's engines onto it, and 'Pilot' it to Linchpin. We can't actually actively pilot it that far, due to not having a long-range communications array, obviously, but we can just give it acceleration instructions and then have it transmit a message with our location once it gets close enough."

Everyone on the bridge sat in stunned silence after my monologue, I hadn't realized that I had been speaking more forcefully towards the end. After everyone had a second to recover, every member of the crew had a different reaction. Captain Abel looked more thoughtful than his slightly arrogant and sarcastic demeanor had ever let through before. Assistant Captain Perry had stood up and was pacing, gaming through all the situations that would lead to a failure, as was his nature. Toby already had his tablet out and looked like he was sketching through a basic mock-up of a messenger/mining droid. Ashley was just staring at me like she wanted to jump me, not a look I was at all complaining about. I gave them all a little more time before I tried to cut in, but Captain Abel beat me to it. 

"Unless anyone sees any reason this shouldn't work, I say this is our current working goal for now. We get to Smelty as soon as possible and see if anything on there is worth anything and if it is a smelter as its design seems to suggest. Anyone?"

With everyone shaking their heads, Captain Abel jerked his head towards the door dismissing us. Ashley took that opportunity to stand up, wrap her arm around me and drag me towards our bunkroom. With her actions that followed, a very shit day ended quite a bit better.

	----------

Waking up to an alarm blaring, thankfully just the one from my tablet, was not the way I had envisioned the next morning starting. I had envisioned a reenactment of the previous night's events, and waking up to an annoying alarm and an empty bed was not really what I was looking for in the slightest. However, an annoying alarm and an empty bed were the reality of my situation. Dragging myself out of bed was significantly less difficult than I had thought it would have been, whatever drugs I had been given the day before were just what I needed because I got up without a headache or twinge in my leg to speak of. My efforts to bring myself back from unconsciousness were aided by remembering that I was stranded, albeit not alone, on a floating husk of a ship in the middle of an asteroid belt. With that whopper coming back to me, I scrambled to do the mess to grab some coffee and get to the bridge to gather my marching orders for the day. Realizing that my plan was now central to the marching orders did not make me more invested in getting there quickly, quite the opposite. I was even more terrified than I had been the morning before, knowing that my plan would likely take up a majority of the resources and time that we had left. It was both exhilarating and highly motivating, and more than a little terrifying. With those existential thoughts out of the way, I was surprisingly awake by the time I entered the bridge even after only having consumed a third of my coffee.

The sight upon entering the bridge was not all that surprising almost exactly the same one that I had seen walking in the last night, Ashley sitting drinking a cup of coffee. Toby curled up on one of the couches next to his workstation, reading some manual or other and chugging his coffee, and both Captain Abel and Assistant Captain Perry murmured to each other quietly near the front while sitting in their usual chairs. When the doors whooshed open, everyone except Toby(unsurprisingly) looked up, both Captain Abel and Assistant Captain Perry quickly went back to their conversation but Ashley nodded her head towards me, motioning for me to come to sit next to her. I followed her unspoken instruction, a lesson I had learned early on, and leaned back in the chair next to her workstation. Why they had given her two identical workstations, one on the bridge and the other in our bunkroom but I learned that questioning programmers about their workstations were never a good idea. The quiet chatter of Captain Abel and Assistant Captain Perry, the quiet grunting of Toby along with the whines of the instrumentation that covered every wall that wasn't a window pervaded the bridge. With no sign of anyone stopping the routine they were in, Ashley murmured with a small smirk, "Sleep Well?". 

Before I could even conjure a witty response, Captain Abel took that opportunity to convene the third meeting of the 'Mid Space Collision Survival Society'. He started the meeting with marching orders for Toby, "Toby, let's see if we can get Seneca to circumnavigate our current craft, see if there are any obvious entryways to get from the airlock to the interior of Smelty. If nothing is obvious, we can always just EVA and cut our way in, though it is not the preferred way to do it." Toby just nodded his approval and that was sufficient for Captain Abel, the longer I saw the trio of Toby, Captian Abel, and Assistant Captain Perry work together it became obvious that there was obvious symbiotic chemistry to how they worked. 

Apparently, today was my lucky day as Captain Abel swiftly moved on to me without so much as a second glance at Toby, saying "Corry I know that you have never EVA'd but one of the best features of our suits is that Tyro can be on your HUD and if you need assistance. He can take over so you will be joining Nelson on the EVA to enter Smelty. You two will coordinate, but for this morning while Seneca takes a look I need you to look through the inventory to see what you will need to take with you and set out a priority list of what you are looking for. Clear?" 

"Crystal, Dan," I responded immediately, it was the assignment I had expected so it came as no shock to me. It was only logical that I be given the task of first EVA with Assistant Captain Perry as Captain Abel would be monitoring and managing everything from the bridge, Ashley would be controlling Seneca while we were out there to act as another pair of eyes and Toby would be in engineering making sure that nothing we did would hurt the ship. 

Captain Abel then moved on to Ashley, saying that she would be controlling Seneca after Toby ensured that it would be fully operational he would be unavailable so it would fall to her. She took this in stride, despite never actually controlling a mining robot she was intimately aware of every system due to her compulsive tendency to read up on everything that could ever be useful to her. When I had suggested running away to a mining ship, she took this as a recommendation to read about every system or tool she would ever have to use. In this case, it proved to be incredibly useful as she just nodded and went about mentally preparing her station for her task. Apparently, Captain Abel was aware of her compulsive researching tendencies so took her nod on spec and just went along with it. Captain Abel and Assistant Captain Perry had already talked about what they would be doing during our first exploration of Smelty so when he turned away to return to his conversation with Assistant Captain Perry we took it as a parent excusing his children from the table. Both Ashley and I stood up, nodded at Assistant Captain Perry who was still half turned towards us and walked out of the bridge. 

On our walk back to our bunkroom, I remembered that I should have had a witty retort to our earlier comment but I just couldn't seem to come up with one. Ashley seemed to be reading my mind because as we walked through the door and took a look at the bunk we had shared just hours before, her smirk could have been seen planets away.


Chapter 3

My mission to collect anything that might be valuable led me quickly from my bunkroom where I gathered my vac-suit and tablet. By the time I had gathered them Ashley was long gone, presumably headed either to Toby or back to the bridge. I didn't need to scan the inventory to know that I needed to get rappelling equipment, with no knowledge on the inner workings of Smelty it wouldn't be a reasonable assumption that we would be able to get around either by walking or using our EVA suits. The safety tour that both Ashley and I had been given upon our entry to the ship was, and the 'Location' section of the inventory was enough to help me find the the rappelling gear. The irony that the safety tour was helping me survive on a desolate alien wreck in the middle of space, when it was intended to be a tour of the ship's systems was not lost on me. With rappeling gear acquired, I took my harvest to the airlock where I prepared my EVA suit. Well, not 'my' EVA suit, just the EVA suit that looked like it would fit me best. Matador only had 3 EVA suits, because up to this point they had no reason to need any more and EVA suits were expensive, espicially the kind that have AI control.

"Tyro?" I called out, looking to use his ship wide omniprescense. 

"Corry?" He answered, with more snark than an AI should have.

"Please ask Assistant Captain Abel whether he would like me to bring along something to break in." I knew that Tyro didn't really like to be the messenger on the ship, but with the situation we were in and his snark I figured that he earned it. I didn't use Nelson's first name because Tyro was a stickler for formality, and I wasn't looking for another lesson on order and discipline aboard a ship, despite the fact that he was treated as just another crew member which was wholly uncommon.

The 52 second break between me asking Tyro and his response, and I knew because my tablet had a widget for it, was not entirely unpleasant. Despite being stuck on a desolate island in the middle of space, space was still as beautiful as ever with the Miasma of the asteroid field, a haze of ionized gas that came from natural processes and the mining of asteroids through the asteroid field lighting up in uncountable shades of blues, greens and reds. 

My gazing was interrupted by Tyro, "Assistant Captain Perry says that they have not launched Seneca yet and do not have a read on your entrance, and to be prepared for all eventualities." 

"Thank you Tyro." I took Assistant Captain Perry's slightly vague answer to mean that I should have some kind of cutting tool available, and the only place where those were readily available was the engineering room. Setting down my prepared EVA suit, and dressed in the vac-suit that I had gathered I began the ship long trek to the engineering room. Matador's design meant that the engineering room was directly below the bridge, supposedly so that the shielding that would keep crew and systems alive could be shared between the two most important spaces on the ship. The engineering room was exactly what one would imagine a tinkerer's paradise would look like, benches strewn with abundant parts and racks full of every kind of tool and gadget that an engineer could ever dream of. Ashley's marks on the room, though she had only been working in it part time for three days were readily apparent with a stack of manuals and books on a tool bench in a corner which already had three screen mounted to it. I had only had a quick glance into this room during the safety tour, so when I walked in and saw a mining drone suspended from the ceiling and both Toby and Ashley on ladders trying to get into the inner workings of it I was more than surprised. 

While I was tempted to yell and scare the shit out of them, I quickly realized that injury was not something we could be tempting in our current situation. Instead of trying to get assistance to find a cutting tool of some kind that would potentially sanction our entry to Smelty instead I simply walked over to the wall that seemed to hold all of the sharp and hot things and started browsing. Of course I recognized almost none of the tools because what reason would I have to recognize them, and had even less clue of what I would need to break into a derelict space station then when I walked in. 

After a few minutes of browsing, Ashley finally noticed that another person was in the room while Toby was head over heels in the guts of Seneca. "Oh, when did you get here Corry?" She asked, out of breath from trying to wiggle her way into the depths of Seneca and failing. 

"A couple of minutes ago, I didn't want to scare or injure you guys so I have just been looking."

"Looking for what?" Toby called out from the interior of Seneca, muffling his voice to a much fainter note than his normally boisterous volume. 

"Some kind of tool that will help me bust into Smelty. What should I use?"

"Just grab the big blue one on the wall with the big wheel, it should be good enough to cut through it and the links can hook up to the EVA suit." Ashley responded distractedly, trying to shove herself into the inner workings of the ship which gave me quite the view.

Grabbing the big blue spinny wheel thing, nobody ever referred to it as anything other than the big blue one with the wheel, I quickly extricated myself from their lair of technology and entrancing views for distracted boyfriends.

	----------

After extricating myself from the engineering room, I brought the big spinny wheel to the airlock with the rest of the equipment, and hooked it up with my suit cables. As promised, the power cord fit right in with the power bank on the side of the suit but I thought that it paid to make sure. With all of the equipment I hoped I would need, and the thought that if Assistant Captain Perry needed anything specific he would either ask me or bring it himself I trundled over to the mess. With Mikey.... gone, we had all taken up the role of sometimes cook which meant that without a pressing job for the moment I was voluntarily conscripted for the role of lunch cook. While my skills in the kitchen were not notable impressive, I figured that with the remains of whatever Mikey had purchased before we left and the equipment that was stocked I would be able to pull something off. 

Upon entry to the kitchen, it looked exactly as it had when I was first touring the ship which meant that whoever had been here for breakfast had cleaned up well which I certainly appreaciated. With no definite date as to when rescue would be avaiable, Captain Abel had made the logical decision to put us on a rationed diet. The big board on the side of the kitchen written in uppercase said, "DON'T OVER-DO IT. WE HAVE TO LIVE. -D". I took this to mean that I should go for some kind of efficient, and was not at all related to wanting to spend the least amount of time in the kitchen doing something that I wasn't particularly good at. Sat in the middle of the table was a tablet with a sticker on the back produly proclaiming, 'RECIPES OF THE GODS'. With the Gods' blessing I flipped to a random page in the middle, saw that it was described as an easy lunch and started picking out ingredients. 20 minutes later I had a concoction of cheesy, meaty goodness called a 'Quasedillia', which was apparently a common food for all social classes on old earth. 

While I cooked, I thought of the first section of the inventory report titled 'FOOD', with an accurate inventory of every food item we had left from a couple of protein bars that Captain Abel had in his room to the hundreds of pound of instant coffee we had in storage it all added up to just over 2.4 million calories. While it seemed a lot of food to keep on board, with 6 people and over 2500 calories per day normally it would have gone much quicker than the 5 people eating 1850 per day we were at now. Thankfully, we had lost next to nothing to the crash, as 1850 calories per day with five people gave us a margin for getting the probe set up if Smelty was helpful in our communications issue. 

Satisfied that I had created something that would be decent enough, and wouldn't cause me to throw up everywhere during our EVA I quickly instructed Tyro to tell everyone to get down here while the food was hot and edible, but not before fucking with him a little bit. "Hey Tyro, have you ever had a quasedilla before. Oh, wait." 

Responding with a brusque and slightly cryptic, "I sent your message. Remember, there is an equal and opposite reaction." He went silent and left me in the mess plating up lunch for our band of survivors. With only four of us in the ship, the rest of them assembled quickly with the promise of hot food and was only accelerated by the smell of cheese that apparently lingered throughout the ship. The conversation during lunch was light, mostly centered on Captain Abel's anticts during his time as one of the EVA specialists aboard his first ship. Apparently he had signed up in a manner very similar to that of Ashley and I, and had taken a role as a bit of a generalist much the same as I had but his prowess with EVA's had quickly come to the fore and for years it had been his main job. The most memorable story scared me as much as it excited me, apparently there had been a propulsion issue on one of the mining drones and due to the density of an asteroid field it was impossible for them to get a ship all the way in to service it. He had riden another mining drone in as his steed, lashed the broken drone to the operational one and had been dragged back. The scariest part of all was that he said that he had volunteered to do it, which made me look at him a little differently as I wasn't sure that my captain had all of his marbles in his head. Apparently I made that thought known by my facial expressions as Captain Abel took one look at me, and said "I would never ever do something that stupd again, but at the time it seemed a decent solution." 

With my faith in the captain of my ship quickly restored, we cleaned up lunch and went back to work. Apparently the entire time that we were sitting and eating, Seneca had been running a pre-defined course around our current vessel recoridng video to see if their was an entrance. The second Ashley had finished cleaning up her plate, she ran straight out of the mess full speed to go check on it. With the sad sight of my girlfriend running away to go do her job, I returned to cleaning up the dishes and fretting about my first EVA.

	----------