### Andrew Garber
### October 20
### Chapter 11 and 12 Notes
### Behaviorism

#### Chapter 11: Cognition
 - Cognition is the mental action or process that includes knowing, remembering, reasoning, understanding, communicating, and learning.
 - Our capacity of cognition is what makes us human.
 - However, humans are spectacularly bad at rational thought - we let biases, emotions, and other factors influence our decisions. 
    - This is why economists have been leaning away from the rational choice model, because humans are bad at making rational choices. Save for Stoics, because we like making rational choices.
 - Concepts are mental categories that we used to group things - it helps save space in our brains, and simplifies the world.
 - Prototypes are mental images or pinnacle examples of a concept: for example a robin is a prototype of a bird, but a penguin is not - but, a penguin is still a bird. 
 - Algorithms are step-by-step procedures that guarantee a solution to a problem. 
    - For example, a recipe is an algorithm for cooking. A* is an algorithm for pathfinding. 
 - Heuristics are simple thinking strategies that allow us to make judgements and solve problems efficiently. 
    - For example, if you're trying to find a word in a dictionary, you don't start at the beginning and go through every word - you use the first letter to find the section, and then you use the second letter to find the page, and so on. 
    - Heuristics are useful, but they can lead to errors.
 - Problem solving is a really nebulous idea, but basically comes down to using our rational and cognitive abilities to solve problems. Sometimes though, we value how FAST we solve the problem over how ACCURATELY we solve the problem, or vice versa.
 - Insight is a sudden realization of a problem's solution. 
    - For example, the "aha!" moment when you realize the answer to a question. 
    - Insight is often accompanied by a burst of activity in the right temporal lobe.
    - This is more of a burst of recognition than a slow, methodical process.
 - Confirmation bias is the human tendency to like validation of our beliefs, and ignore contradictory evidence. We are REALLY susceptible to this.
 - This is even more prevelant among high IQ people, because they believe they are better at research and reasoning than they actually are, and are more likely to cling to Belief Perseverance.


#### Chapter 12: Emotion
 - Motivations is a feeling or idea that causes us to act towards a goal. 
    - For example, food, sex, and achievement are all motivations. I don't think this is a full list, but it's a good start.
 - Instict theory is the belief we are motivated by inborn automated behaviors, this is a Darwinian idea.
 - Drive-Reduction theory is the theory that our behavior is motivated by biological needs, maintaing homeostastis. If we eat, we are less hungry, we return to homeostasis.
 - Primary drive is a biological need like hunger, thirst, and sex - a secondary drive is something learned from experience, like money.
 - Arousal theory is the theory we are motivated to seek MAXIMUM arousal - we are motivated to seek stimulation. 
 - This is related to the Yerkes-Doson Law, saying that we perform best at moderate arousal/stress/stimulation.
 - Maslow's Heirarchy of Needs is a pyramid of needs, with the most basic needs at the bottom, and the most complex needs at the top. 
    - The bottom is physiological needs, then safety, then love/belonging, then esteem, then self-actualization, then self-transcendence.
    - This is a good way to think about motivation, but it's not always true - for example, some people will sacrifice their safety for love, or their physiological needs for self-actualization.
 - Incentive is a pull towards a goal, like a reward or a punishment.
 - All emotions are learned, and are a mix of physiological arousal, expressive behaviors, and conscious experience. 
 - Not all emotions are rational! Emotions should be disected using rational thought, to ensure that we are only letting rational emotions influence our decisions. Rational emotions like joy, love, hope, and loyalty are more than worthy, but irrational emotions like fear, anger, hatred, jealously, and loss are irrational and should be ignored.