### Andrew Garber
### Chapter 17 Notes
### November 17
 - Psychotherapy is a process that involves a therapist using a range of techniques to help a patient overcome difficulties, achive personal growth, and gain insight into thier unique mind.
 - There are many schools of psychotherapy, each with its own unique approach to helping people overcome their problems. The most notable are the psychodynamic, existential-humanistic, cognitive, and behavioral schools(cognitive and behavioral are often grouped together as cognitive-behavioral therapy, or CBT - which took great influence from Stoicism).
 - Freud's strategies would be categorized today as part of the psychodynamic school of psychotherapy. The psychodynamic school focuses on the unconscious mind and how it influences behavior. It is based on the idea that the unconscious mind is the primary driver of behavior, and that the conscious mind is only a small part of the mind. This has come under criticism, as it is difficult to test scientifically(and the insights from this school are often vague, and difficult to apply to real life).
 - The psychodynamic school more broadly contains ideas and practices from Jung, Horney, and Adler - it isn't just Freud. Jung is personally one of my favorite psychological thinkers, and his ideas regarding archetypes, and the shadow are broadly applicable to life. 
 - The existential-humanistic school, championed by another one of my favorite thinkers, Victor Frankl, was more focused on the concious thoughts about the present and future. They weren't all that interested in past repressed memories, instead focusing on the present and future. They believed strongly that humans have an inherent capacity for growth, and that the therapist's job was to help the patient realize this through rational though, self-acceptance, and introspection.
 - The existential-humanistic school also pioneered "Client-Centered Therapy", which is a form of therapy where the therapist is non-directive, and instead focuses on helping the patient realize their own potential. Some people dislike this due to it not being "direct" enough, but in reality I think it is preferable to having the therapist be a "manager" of sorts, and instead have them be a guide or a coach. This was mostly driven by Carl Rogers.
 - The other side of this is the existential part, meaning that due to our awareness of our own mortality we are inherently anxious about our decisions and the future. Frankl believed that this anxiety was a good thing, and that it was a sign that we were living a meaningful life. He also has one of the greatest statements of all time in relation to this, effectively saying "It is egotistical to ask others what the meaning of life is, as if they knew. Instead, we should define it for ourselves." This combination of Stoic and Neitzschean thought is articulated beautifully.
 - They emphasized that an awareness of our own mortality, *Memento Mori*, was a good thing, as it allowed us to live a maximally meaningful life, and realize our human potential. 
 - Behavioral therapists focus largely on replacing unwanted, maladaptive behaviors with functional ones that allow us to mitigate anxities. If you have a fear of flying, for example, they would tell you to condition yourself with small steps and rewards until you are able to fly without anxiety. Now, this is a bit of a simplification, but it is the general idea. It is based on Pavlov's classical conditioning, and Skinner's operant conditioning. They frequently include desensitization(have tried this, didn't work for me), and exposure therapy(similar to desensitization, tried it, didn't work for me).
 - Behavioral therapy is frequently not enough on its own, and is often combined with cognitive therapy. Cognitive therapy is based on the idea that we can fundamentally control our own minds, rationally considering our thoughts and emotions, and changing irrational ones to more rational ones. This is fundamentally Stoic in nature(Enchiridion is a great example of this), and when combined form Cognitive Behavioral Therapy, CBT.  