### Andrew Garber
### December 1 
### Chapter 18 and 19 Notes
 - Social Psychology focuses not on the individual but on the power of the situation and the way people are shaped by their interactions with others. Examines how we think about, influence, and relate to one another.
 - There is an important differentiation to be made between actions made due to individual traits/personality and actions made due to the situation. 
 - Attribution theory is the theory that behavior is caused either by someone's enduring, stable personality traits or by the situation at hand.
 - Fundamental attribution error is the tendency for observers, when analyzing another's behavior, to underestimate the impact of the situation and to overestimate the impact of personal disposition.
 - According to a study on fundamental attribution error, 7/10 women report that men have misread their friendliness as a sexual come-on. So that's a really big problem(I also think part of that is due to a societal belief that men have to be the ones to iniaite relationships, sexual or romantic, so any kind of sign of *anything* becomes signal instead of noise.)
 - We spend all day making attributions about the behavior of others, looking for patterns in their behavior and what it says about them. 
 - These are frequently colored by our own biases and prejudices, and especially by our own insecurities - we tend to attribute the actions of others to the things we are most insecure about in ourselves.
 - According to central route persuasion, people are simply persuaded by basic information, thinking, and reasoning - good argument structure.
 - Peripheral route persuasion is the way that influences people by way of incidental cues, such as likeability or attractiveness of the speaker - why do you think so many car ads have a mostly naked girl on the hood of the car? It's not because it's relevant to the car, it's because it's a peripheral cue that makes you think the car is more attractive(and that based on you having that car, you could get that kind of girl).
 - More scarily than any of this, our attitudes can be shaped by our behaviors. This is where "fake it till you make it" comes from - if you act like you're happy, you'll be happier. If you act like you're confident, you'll be more confident. If you act like you're competent, you'll be more competent. 
 - **"Don't explain your philosophy. Embody it." - Epictetus** is actually an excellent example of this. Don't spend your time talking about what you believe, as if that will improve you, spend your time living it and you will become it. For Nietzsche, don't spend your time talking about the ubermensch, make yourself uncomfortable to grow and you will become the ubermensch(not exactly, but you get the idea).
 - Foot-in-the-door phenomenon is the tendency for people who have first agreed to a small request to comply later with a larger request. This is why salesmen will ask you to do something small first, like sign up for a newsletter, and then ask you to do something bigger, like buy a product. Even better, if you do something small for someone, they're more likely to do something bigger for you later. 
 - Speaking of, moral action has been proven to actually strengthen moral conviction. In the same way, amoral action can weaken moral conviction(or more accurately, strengthen amoral conviction). In doing so, the outside belief system that you attach yourself to becomes more and more a part of you. 
 - Alright, now on to the big example of this: the Stanford Prison Experiment. This experiment was conducted by a guy named Philip Zimbardo, who divided a group of volunteers into two groups: prisoners and guards. The guards were given uniforms, batons, and sunglasses, and told to keep the prisoners in line. The prisoners were given uniforms and told to follow the guards' orders. The experiment was supposed to last two weeks, but was ended after six days because the guards had become so abusive and the prisoners so submissive that it was deemed unsafe. What is important here is that all of the guards and prisoners went back to their normal lives after the experiment, and returned to their normal personalities. This is important because it shows that the situation, not the people, was the cause of the behavior.
 - Part of the reason it is so easy to conform to actions that we would normally find reprehensible is cognitive dissonance theory. In effect, we want our thoughts and beliefs to be aligned - when they aren't, either internally or due to extreme societal pressure, we will change our beliefs to minimize the dissonance. In the case of external societal pressure, this is called conformity(one of my most hated things in the world).
 - Another part of cognitive dissonance theory is the idea of self-justification. We will either justify our actions by our situation, "I had to do it, the situation demanded it", or by our beliefs, "I was wrong before that I thought this was wrong, but now I know it's right - the situation proved it".

# 19
 - Social influence is the study of how we are influenced by the people around us. 
 - This was pioneered by a guy named Stanley Milgram in relation to the trial of Adolf Eichmann, a war criminal who claimed he was just following orders - obviously this didn't hold up in court, but it did lead to Milgram's experiment.
 - In his experiment, he built a fake shock generator and had the participants(matched up with one of Milgram's colleagues) draw straws for who would be the teacher or learner. The draw was fixed so that his colleague would always be the learner. The teacher was told to administer shocks to the learner when they got a question wrong, and the shocks would increase in intensity. The learner was an actor, and would pretend to be in pain and beg the teacher to stop. The teacher was told to continue, and the experiment was to see how far they would go. 
 - The results were shocking - about 2/3 of the participants went all the way to the end of the shock generator, even when the learner was screaming in pain and begging them to stop(faked, but the participants didn't know that). ALL of the participants went to at least 300 volts, which is a pretty high shock(even though it was fake).
 - He continued this experiment in different variations for years, and he found that individual obedience was highst when the person giving the orders was in close proximity, when the authority figure was supported by a prestigious institution(government, university, etc), and when the victim was depersonalized or at a distance.
 - These all led to landmark conclusions on the subjects of social influence and conformity.
 - We all conform to a certain extent, and we all obey to some extent. This is because we are by nature social creatures, and we want to fit in with the group.
 - With deliberate, concious, and mindful philosophical practice, we can overcome this tendency to conform and obey. To some degree, *some* amount of conformity(speaking the same language is conformity, for example. Using "proper" grammar is obedience to those who taught you those rules) is necessary and helpful for a society to function. However I personally disagree with those as precedents for widespread conformity and obedience to artificial authority.
 - Part of this is that when we conform, we are swimming with the current. It's easy, it's confortable, and it's safe. When we don't conform, we are swimming against the current. It's hard, it's uncomfortable, and it's dangerous. But it's also the only way to pursue a path of self-actualization and individuation.
 - Another part of the reason we conform is unconcious mimicry - we nod when someone else nods, we are more likely to smile if someone else is smiling, we are more likely to laugh if someone else is laughing. This is a natural part of being a social creature, and it's not necessarily a bad thing.
 - In totality, conformity describes how we adjust our behaviors or thinking to follow the behaviors or rules of the group.
 - Obedience is a more specific form of conformity, where we follow the orders of someone in a position of authority.
 - The Asch conformity experiments(lines on a card) showed that some percentage of people will conform to the group even when they know the group is wrong, especially when they are made to feel insecure or incompetent and when the group is larger than 3 people.
 - This is a somewhat sensitive topic, but certain cultures prize conformity more than others. Despite a recent rise in bullshit conformity in the US, we are still uniquely individualistic and non-conformist *COMPARATIVELY*.
 - Normative social influence is the idea that we need to conform in order to be liked or accepted by the group. Thankfully, in the right group, this is actively discouraged.
 - Social Loafing is the idea that people in a group will exert less effort than they would if they were alone. This is why group projects are so hated - the people who care will do all the work, and the people who don't care will do nothing.
 - This is why small, well selected groups in which everyone is invested in the outcome - some might even call them "startups" - are so effective. The opposite of social loafing is social facilitation, where the presence of others improves performance. 
 - When everyone is working 18 hour days, you're more likely to work 18 hour days. When everyone is working 8 hour days, you're more likely to work 8 hour days.