Andrew Garber
International Relations Comparative Paper # 1
Introduction
The nature of the international landscape is rapidly changing, and threats to the United States and the liberal world order it helmed since since the fall of the Soviet Union are becoming more pronounced. The pessimists will say that all powers inevitably fall from their perch, and that the time for the world to recess into a multipolar world is upon us. History would agree with them, but that would underestimate the history-changing potential of the United States in our own time. Three threats to the United States will test this belief, if the United States can overcome them, it will perhaps set the stage for the United States to be the power that never falls: the rise of China, the erosion of American economic dominance, and the new axis of Russia, Iran, and North Korea. In turn, these must be countered with changes in the strategy and tactics of American foreign policy, from alignment with our allies across the world, a shift in American domestic economic policy, and a forward, accepting stance towards being the world's bulwark against the forces of tyranny. America is the world's premier principled power, and it is the duty of such a nation to lead the free people of the world in the protection of their values and principles.
Threat 1: The Rise of China
China's rise to great power status is perhaps the greatest testament to the supremacy of liberal capitalism, even if done by a nation principally opposed to it. The adoption of limited economic freedoms and the plugging in of the Chinese market into the global economy finally allowed the humongous labor and natural resources of China to drive the Chinese economy to that of the second largest in the world, as well as three-quarters of a billion people out of poverty. Contrary to the propaganda of the Chinese Communist Party which rules China's population through a system of totalitarian control, the limited capitalism of China since Deng Xiaoping's reforms was what allowed the Chinese economy to grow to the point where it is today - not the Maoist policies that drove the Chinese people into the ground. Despite this, the Chinese Communist Party has retained control of China's now far enlarged economy, with correspondingly larger military and diplomatic reach, setting China and the United States-led liberal world order on a collision course of fundamental ideological differences.
To counter this threat will require a multi-pronged approach, beginning with attempts to engage the Chinese population with the benefits of liberalism and break the "Great Firewall" that the Chinese Communist Party has erected to control information flow. The propaganda that the Chinese people are subjected to is equal to that of any of the great totalitarian regimes of the past, thus the breaking of this total information control is essential for the parts of the Chinese population that are "lying flat"(Rice p.6) to switch from their indifference to the Chinese Communist Party to active supporters of its end. Rice puts it well when illustrating what she calls the "trust deficit" between the Chinese Communist Party and its young people in particular, "Young Chinese citizens may be proud of their country, but a 20 percent youth unemployment rate has undermined their optimism for the future. Xi’s heavy-handed propagation of “Xi Jinping Thought” turns them off ... Now is thus not the time to isolate Chinese youth but the time to welcome them to study in the United States. (Rice p.6)." More than this, the economic faults of China's Maoist foundations are cracking in their collaboration with the limited capitalism of Deng Xiaoping, as Rice says, "China’s golden age of private sector-led growth has slowed in large part because of the Chinese Communist Party’s anxiety about alternative sources of power. China used to lead the world in online education startups, but in 2021, the government cracked down on them because it could not reliably monitor their content. A once thriving entrepreneurial culture has withered away (Rice p.6)." Fundamentally, the Chinese Communist Party is a totalitarian regime that will maximize its political safety, even hurting its economic power in the process if it ensures regime survival. This is not a problem the powers of the liberal world order face, on the contrary, leaders can ensure their own political prospects by the acceleration of domestic economic progress.
In a strictly foreign policy approach, the United States should aggressively pursue alignment with partners in the region such as Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Australia, and the Philippines, as well as countries that are not fully aligned with the United States but who are strictly opposed to China, such as India and Vietnam. Despite the alarmism of some commentators, the foreign policy clash between China and the United States-led liberal world order is not going to be decided by Africa or the Middle East, but by economic and political power in the Indo-Pacific - the United States must front-load its deterrence to the Chinese threat in this region in collaboration with partners in the region.
Threat 2: The Erosion of American Economic Dominance
While China's economic rise is impressive, they are what can only be called a "copycat economy" - the political nature of living under a totalitarian Communist regime means that innovation is both not as rewarded as under capitalism, as well as being potentially dangerous if a politician with power is threatened by it. Still, American manufacturing has lost to lower labor costs abroad, and the coordinated plans of the Chinese Government has allowed them to push ahead in some industries. This cannot continue, America must win the innovation war in order to avoid a shooting one. Offshoring to nations with lower labor costs is strictly economically beneficial and should continue for consumer goods, as long as those powers are aligned with the United States(India, Philippines, Vietnam, Nigeria, etc.), but the United States must retain domestic manufacturing capability in advanced technologies. Still, in many areas, American manufacturing is naturally returning due to the higher risk of supply-chain disruption making domestic manufacturing more attractive, as well as the greater recognition that America's manufacturing sector is simply so productive per-worker that it can simply outcompete. This must be accelerated by greater domestic military spending, as Mitch McConnell put it, "In 2018, the Commission on the National Defense Strategy—a bipartisan group of defense experts established by Congress—stressed that preserving the United States’ military edge would require sustained real growth in the defense budget of between three percent and five percent. By 2024, the commission, noting the worsening threats, called that range a “bare minimum” and advocated budgets big enough to “support efforts commensurate with the U.S. national effort seen during the Cold War (McConnell p.5-6)." More than this, the United States' unmatched innovation in the technology sector must be harnessed to counter the weapons of its opponents, "China and Russia have invested in asymmetric capabilities to offset the U.S. military edge. Today, their munitions in many categories can outrange U.S. versions, and their production can outpace the United States (McConnell p.5)." The same technology talent that builds a new social media platform once a week needs to be incentivized to build new missile systems and drones.
Threat 3: The New Axis of Russia, Iran, and North Korea
The new axis of second-rate, anti-liberal powers in Iran and its puppet terrorist organizations, Russia, and North Korea, is a threat not due to its total magnitude but in its cone of potential vectors. While China is aligned with this axis, its magnitude of threat is so far greater than the other members of the axis combined that it acts differently - it can pick and choose when to back up its partners, but sees itself as dueling the liberal world order, led by the United States, in a state-to-state sense, thus will not be considered here. The policy solution to these threats is simple: alignment with European/Middle Eastern allies, and playing up-front and not giving an inch, as McConnell said, "the enemy gets a vote, too, and may decide to confront the United States simultaneously on multiple fronts, at which point allies become more valuable than ever. (McConnell p.3)." These forces of tyranny are erratic and unpredictable in the way that only a threatened animal can be. If they act in concert--especially with their far bigger partner China--they can prove a serious foe to continued American leadership. Backing Ukraine with European partners is a good start, and one that needs to be expanded and continued until Russia's invasion is stalled and the Ukranian government can find a settlement on favorable terms, but continued strong support for Israel who have carried the West's burden against Iran is also strictly necessary. European allies have increased their military spending in recent years which is a positive step but at a fundamental level they cannot economically, militarily, or spiritually carry the flag for the continuation and defense of the liberal world in the same way the United States can and must.
