### Andrew Garber
### October 12 2022
### Characterization in *The Underdogs* 

### Prompt:
SUMMARY SESSION:  CHARACTERIZATION.  Read some background on the life of the author Mariano Azuela.  As you read The Underdogs, where do you see Azuela's own life reflected in the character(s)? Give specific examples (reminder - this can be the "anti" Azuela as much as similar experiences.)  -Two- no more than three, paragraphs with TEXT CITINGS.  

### Research:
[Britannica](https://www.britannica.com/biography/Mariano-Azuela)
[yourdictionary](https://biography.yourdictionary.com/mariano-azuela)
[Texas State Historical Association](https://www.tshaonline.org/handbook/entries/azuela-mariano)


#### Summary Session
Mariano Azuela, the author of *The Underdogs* lived a life that is reflected in the characters of his most famous novel. Azuela's feelings about the revolution are reflected in the actions of the main characters of the story, notably the enthusiasm and later lack thereof for revolution itself in Demetrio Macías as he leads his band as the honorable leader of the masses against the tyrannical rule of the government. Luis Cervantes represents Azuela's idealism of the revolution, believing in the power of representation for the people and the cause they were fighting for, and later the disillusionment of many who got into the fight for ideals, not plunder.

During his time as a doctor, he was a critic of the Díaz regime and when Díaz fled from the country he took up local positions as a civil servant but when Madero was assassinated he joined one of the traveling bands of rebels under Pancho Villa, who was largely the inspiration for Demetrio Macías. Macías, is a leader more out of circumstance than necessity, as when readers are introduced to his character it is when the Federales are threatening to rape his wife, he barges in and forces them away. The dialogue between Macías and his wife illustrates his understanding that he very much now had to go to war with them, "When they had gone, the woman drew close to Demetrio.  'Holy Virgin, what agony! I suffered as though it was you they'd shot.' 'You go to father's house, quick!' Demetrio ordered. . . . . 'I've an idea the whole lot of them are coming.' 'Why didn't you kill 'em?' 'Their hour hasn't struck yet.'" This experience of an outside event pushing Demetrio to join the revolutionaries and fight against the oppression and tyranny of the government, in the form of ruthless soldiers burning his house is mirrored in Azuela's life when upon Madero's assassination and the descent of Mexico into widespread lawlessness Azuela joins the constitutionalist forces to attempt to restore order and the rule of law. This later becomes tragically ironic as Azuela becomes more and more disillusioned with the revolution as signified by the increasing brutality of Demetrio and his band, and their lack of care for the destruction they are causing.

Despite his close association with the brutality of war-and his increasing disillusionment with the actions of the revolutionaries entirely-he remained an eminent intellectual belief in the overall goals of the revolutionaries which are reflected in Luis Cervantes. Cervantes is introduced as an outsider both demographically and chronologically to the revolutionary band under Macías as he was a member of the Federales who had deserted to join the revolutionaries, and thus had not been an original member of the group, and had been a doctor and journalist before joining the revolutionaries: setting himself apart from the peasants who made up the entirety of the Macías group. This is seen when Cervantes is first trying to be accepted as a recruit, "'All I've tried to do is to make myself clear on this point. I want you to be convinced that I am truly one of your coreligionists.... 'What's that? What did you say? Car ... what?' Demetrio asked, .... 'Coreligionist, sir, that is to say, a person who possesses the same religion, who is inspired by the same ideals,'..... Demetrio smiled: 'What are we fighting for? That's what I'd like to know.'In his disconcertment, Luis Cervantes could find no reply."  This mirrors the experience of Azuela in joining Pancho Villa, whose group was made up almost entirely of the disaffected lower classes and who were naturally suspicious of intellectuals like Azuela. The difference in vocabulary is also notable in differentiating between the social and educational levels of Macías and Cervantes as the peasants would have both had a difficult time understanding him, and think him to be looking down on them with his more advanced vocabulary.

In conclusion, the characters of *The Underdogs* mirror Mariano Azuela's experience with the revolution with the zeal for the cause, later disillusionment with their methods, and then disgust at their actions and what an originally righteous cause had become. Demetrio Macías is an encasement of the morally questionable actions of the revolution and what starts as an honorable quest to bring back the rule of law and justice to Mexico becomes an excuse for plunder and bloodshed which tarnishes the country and people they were trying to protect and enfranchise. Luis Cervantes is a reflection of Mariano Azuela's demographic differences between himself and the vast majority of the revolutionaries, he was an intellectual who as both a journalist and medical student was vocal in his disapproval of the lack of democratic practices and economic reforms, leading to him joining the fight. However, these differences make him more aware and more quickly disillusioned with their actions as his band starts the wholesale pillage of the villages they are recapturing from their so-called enemies.