### Andrew Garber
### October 24
### Honors and Dishonor in *The Underdogs*

*The Underdogs*, Mariano Azuela's greatest work detailing his experiences in the Mexican Revolution through the actions of multiple characters focuses heavily on the theme of honor and the purpose of revolution. This concept is diluted as the story progresses as what was once an honorable cause to enfranchise the downtrodden and provide liberty for the oppressed became a barely veiled excuse to become the marauders and parasites on the population they had so despised. The honor of the characters and the actions they perform is so highly correlated with the general belief in the purpose of the revolution because revolution is such a highly idealistic act that without honor, the actions that one must take to perform a revolution quickly cross the line into both immortality and illegality.    

At the beginning of the story, Demetrio Macias is forced into the revolution by targeted harassment by the Federales, however, he takes this chance opportunity to muster a group of men for whom a better future is reliant upon a return of the rule of law but also a more fair and just society. This belief in the cause is well shown by Cervantes detailing his reasons for joining the revolution. "'My name is Luis Cervantes, sir. I'm a medical student and a journalist. I wrote a piece in favor of the revolution, you see; as a result, they persecuted me, caught me, and finally landed me in the barracks.'" The fact that the punishment for criticism of the government-an act should never be persecuted against-was forced conscription shows just how unpopular the government was among the people. The contrast between the revolutionaries who had men walk across the nation to join their cause and the government forces who had to use those who were vocally in opposition to their existence as soldiers show the belief in the cause that manifested in its entirety throughout the early stages of the revolution. 

In the middle of the story, the gloss that covered the morally corrupt actions in the name of revolution starts to slowly fade in favor of a cold acceptance of the morally bankrupt nature of their actions, though a sense of being trapped in the revolution pervades as well.  The waning spirit of the revolution and the corresponding decrease in care for the honor of their cause is symbolized by Solis telling Cervantes about his growing disillusionment with the revolution.  "'I hoped to find a meadow at the end of the road. I found a swamp. Facts are bitter; so are men. That bitterness eats your heart out; it is poison, dry rot. Enthusiasm, hope, ideals, happiness-vain dreams, vain dreams.... When that's over, you have a choice. Either you turn bandit, like the rest, or the timeservers will swamp you....'" Solis, who is similarly an intellectual who joined for the ideals of the fight and not the ruthless plunder, indictment of the revolutionary cause before the feeling becomes widespread serves as a kind of forewarning that the callous actions of the revolutionaries have no upper limit.

As the story comes towards the end and the scale of the revolution in the eyes of the reader increases from Demetrio's band who fight in the shadows of much greater revolutionary leaders to being a part of Pancho Villa's army and the widespread destruction it sows, all faith in the cause of the revolution fades. The cold-hearted banditry that the revolution would wrap itself in and the sacrifice of the honor that had suffused their cause is well shown in the entirety of War Paint's character, but most notably during her first night in the town with Demetrio's group. "'What damned fools," said War Paint convulsed with laughter! "Where the hell do you come from?..... Soldiers don't sleep in hotels and inns any more....... Where do you come from? You just go anywhere you like and pick a house that pleases you, see. When you go there, make yourself at home and don't ask anyone for anything. What the hell is the use of the revolution.'" War Paint's loud acceptance of the fact that this has stopped being about morality and ideals long before and is now simply an excuse for the strong to take from the weak is a successor to the earlier warnings of Solis and provides a sense of finality in the morality of the revolution: that it would never recover.

In conclusion, the honorable cause that the revolutionaries began their cause fighting for is not the one that *The Underdogs* ends with. The moral fiber of their cause that inspired them to rise against an overwhelming force and brought them parity and then superiority in their arms was abandoned in favor of unjustified aggression. The same atrocities that they lambasted the Federales for were surpassed and then made mild in comparison to the wholesale slaughter and pillaging of villages and towns they claimed they were liberating. The decline of morals and ideals as central justifications for the inherent brutality of any revolution is seen throughout the story both in Azuela's use of specific characters and their thoughts on the revolution and the general tone he employs throughout the story. As the end of the story grows nearer a tone of defeatism and lack of purpose that signifies all revolutions become the dominant force. Azuela's use of the concepts of honor and idealism throughout the story is a powerful reminder of how the base animalistic instincts of humanity are unleashed through warfare and how if allowed to run wild the lack of humanity exhibited can be extraordinary.