### Andrew Garber
### October 19
### Tone in *The Underdogs*

Mariano Azuela, the author of *The Underdogs* shows a number of tones throughout the story in accordance with his experiences during the Mexican Revolution beginning the story as triumphantly idealistic and later settling into somber realism. This sharp divide is most accurately exhibited when Alberto Solis is talking to Luis Cervantes about the battle on the slope of the mountain, and when War Paint is telling Demetrio Macias about her love of looting and how it was the right of any soldier to loot.

Solis, an old friend of Luis Cervantes who is similarly an intellectual in a revolution of illiterate and uneducated peasants, joined the revolution for the same ideals as Cervantes did as he wished to restore the rule of law and create a more just society. He talks about the actions of Demetrio as he led the men in the battle on the steep slopes of the mountain as a living depiction of a war god, a valiant man leading his men in the charge against the unjust oppressors in service of the masses who yearned to breath free. This is best shown in his description of Demetrio saying, "Demetrio's horse seemed to wear eagle's claws instead of hoofs, it soared so swiftly over the rocks. 'Come on! Come on!' his men shouted, following him like wild deer, horses and men welded into a mad stampede... In a few seconds the others appeared at the top of the hill, storming the trenches and killing the Federals by the thousand. With his rope, Demetrio lassoed the machine guns and carried them off, like a bull herd throwing a steer." This battle and the overwhelmingly heroic manner in which Azuela describes Demetrio's actions through Solis is a clear example of the heroic tone that Azuela was seeking to convey in the early parts of the book before the greed and barbarism steeped through the ranks of the revolutionaries.

War Paint, a more seasoned revolutionary and foil to the more intentionally idealistic members of the revolution, becomes the symbol of the corrupting nature of warfare and how easily revolution can be twisted to enhance the greed that it was seeking to consign to the past. After immediately showing herself to be a courageous, but impulsive figure in the bar where she first meets Demetrio and some members of his band, she introduces them to the widespread greed that has suffused the revolution, saying, "'What damned fools,' said War Paint convulsed with laughter! 'Where the hell do you come from?..... Soldiers don't sleep in hotels and inns any more....... Where do you come from? You just go anywhere you like and pick a house that pleases you, see. When you go there, make yourself at home and don't ask anyone for anything. What the hell is the use of the revolution? Who's it for? For the folks who live in towns? We're the city folk now, see?'" This kind of remorseless plunder that War Paint embodies is one of the main methods by which Azuela conducts a rapid change in the tone of the story with the downward slope away from the ideals and values of the revolution and toward becoming the very same oppressors that the revolutionaries were nominally fighting against.
