### Andrew Garber
### February 10-24 2023
### Marcus Aurelius, Meditations, and Stoicism 

# Foreword
This examination of Marcus Aurelius and his personal journal, today known as "Meditations", is being done with a modern translation of the work, specifically the 2003 Gregory Hays translation. This edition, one of many, was chosen for its readability and faithfulness to the original text. More than that, a large number of the quotes attributed to Marcus Aurelius come from this translation and so it is the one that is most familiar to the majority of readers. 
In the context of modern English, the word "stoic"(note the lowercase *s*) means "one apparently or professedly indifferent to pleasure or pain"(Merriam Webster). However in this context, Stoic(note the uppercase *S*) is used to describe, "a member of a school of philosophy founded by Zeno of Citium about 300 b.c. holding that the wise man should be free from passion, unmoved by joy or grief, and submissive to natural law"(Merriam Webster). The lowercase version of the word has only tangential relation to the philosophy of the school of Stoicism, so a conscious effort should be made to separate the two.

# Who was Marcus Aurelius?

Marcus Aurelius Antoninus born in 121 AD, and ruler of the Roman Empire from 161 to 180 AD was the last of the "Five Good Emperors" and the greatest embodiment of Plato's immortal call that, "States will never be happy until rulers become philosophers or philosophers become rulers." Born Marcus Catilius Severus Annius Verus, his father Verus died when he was only three years old leaving him to be raised by his grandfathers who were members of the emperor Hadrian's court. Marcus did indeed come from noble stock, his grandfather at the time of his birth was in his second tenure as consul. Few would have expected Marcus to rise to the Imperial Purple however, through a convoluted scheme on the behalf of the Emperor Hadrian, did he do so. Following the death of his planned heir, Lucius Ceionius Commodus, Hadrian adopted the childless senator Antoninus who then adopted Marcus. This was a common practice and was meant to ensure the longer-term stability of the Empire. It may have seemed odd that Marcus was chosen to be raised to the Imperial Purple, but Marcus' reputation for honesty had been growing since he was a child. In fact, Hadrian nicknamed him "Verissimus" - *the truest one* - and had been keeping an eye on him for some years. His path for the purple was set, but it remained to be seen what kind of emperor he would be.

# Marcus's Path To Philosophy
Marcus's path to philosophy can be credited to the tutors that he had during his youth. As Ryan Holiday and Stephen Hanselman write in their book, "Lives of the Stoics", "By the time Marcus was ten or eleven, he had already taken to philosophy, dressing the part in humble, rough clothing and living with sober and restrained habits,"(p. 280). This extraordinary commitment to philosophy at such a young age was likely a notable factor in Hadrian's decision to put him on a path to the purple. We know little about his early childhood tutors, but following his adoption by Hadrian he was tutored by some of the most educated men of his time including Herodes Atticus, Marcus Cornelius Fronto - many of his letters with Marcus survive and paint a picture of his increasing interest in philosophy, Apollonius of Chalcedon and most notably Junius Rusticus.

Rusticus's role in forming the young Marcus into the very model of Plato's philosopher king cannot be overstated. In fact, it was likely Rusticus who introduced him to Stoic doctrine and in doing so merited a place in Book 1 of Marcus's "Meditations": Debts and Lessons. Rusticus is the seventh person mentioned, and Marcus directly thanks him for, "introducing me to Epictetus's lectures-and loaning me his own copy."(p.6 Hays). This simple act of kindness between teacher and student helped elevate Marcus to the heights of philosophy and the heights of his own character.

# The Two Most Important Messages of "Meditations"
"Meditations" has provided guidance to philosophers, kings, generals, and laymen for centuries and everyone has passages they find most meaningful. However, the two that provide the greatest insight into both Marcus's character, and the philosophy of Stoicism are Passage 1 of Book 2, and Passage 49 of Book 4. These two passages provide a window into the soul of Marcus and exemplify the core principles of the man that made him a talented and effective ruler, and a great philosopher.

Passage 1 of Book 2 is a simple, but powerful reminder of why humans must be cooperative and why anger at other humans is neither useful nor rational, "When you wake up in the morning, tell yourself: The people I deal with today will be meddling, ungrateful, arrogant, dishonest, jealous, and surly. They are like this because they can't tell good from evil. But I have seen the beauty of good... and have recognized that the wrongdoer has a nature related to my own"(p.17 Hays). This passage is a critical reminder that human beings are fundamentally alike and deserve the kindness and respect that we would want for ourselves. Marcus, in this passage, is reminding himself that the vain courtiers and petty bureaucrats that he must deal with are not different in any meaningful way from himself. They are not "other" nor "less than", they are simply human beings who have let their character be corrupted, but who can still redeem themselves. Throughout other passages, Marcus reminds himself that even though court life is full of petty, jealous, and vain people, he must not let his own character be corrupted by them nor allow himself to treat them with anything less than dignity and respect. The impact of this passage is immortal as there are no fewer vain or petty people in the world today, and with an even more interconnected world, we are all the more likely to encounter them. Expecting them to be anything other than they are is a recipe for disappointment and anger, but treating them with anything less than dignity and respect makes us no better than they are.

Passage 49 of Book 4 is a forceful exhortation to maintain your self-control in the face of adversity. In Marcus's daily life as the most powerful man in the world, any problem of the state was his problem. He was forced to make hard decisions while his empire was battered by plagues, invasions, and internal dissent, and yet in a singular passage, he teaches a masterclass on triumphing over adversity. What makes this even more impressive was that this was not him calling on others to stand up and deal with it, he was calling to himself, saying, "It's unfortunate that this has happened. No. It's fortunate that this has happened and I've remained unharmed by it... It could have happened to anyone. But not everyone could have remained unharmed by it...Does what's happened keep you from acting with justice, generosity, self-control, sanity, prudence, honesty, humility, straightforwardness...the thing itself was no misfortune at all; to endure it and prevail is great good fortune."(p.48 Hays). This quality of self-control is the hallmark of an exceptional leader, and by calling upon himself to maintain it, Marcus set an example for his circle and his empire. This passage is a beautiful encapsulation of the most fundamental Stoic concept, that we are only in control of our own actions, and allowing external events to control them sacrifices our freedom and our reason.

# Conclusion
Marcus Aurelius, through his leadership of the Roman Empire, formed a model for enlightened leaders throughout the ages. His philosophy of Stoicism, which he practiced throughout his life and recorded in his journal, "Meditations", provided a shining light of reason and self-control for leaders and laymen alike. His two most important messages, that humans are fundamentally alike and deserve respect, and that we are only in control of our own actions and must maintain our self-control in the face of adversity, are as relevant today as they were 2000 years ago. The list of leaders who have been influenced by Marcus Aurelius is long and illustrious, and his influence will continue to be felt for centuries to come.

### Sources:
 - [Merrian Webster](https://www.merriam-webster.com/dictionary/stoic)
 - [Lives of the Stoics - Ryan Holiday and Stephen Hanselman](https://www.amazon.com/Lives-Stoics-Living-Marcus-Aurelius/dp/052554187X)
 - [Meditations by Marcus Aurelius - Gregory Hays](https://www.amazon.com/Meditations-New-Translation-Marcus-Aurelius/dp/0812968255/)
