### Andrew Garber
### October 5, 2023
### Plato On Democracy Summary Session

#### Prompt: In *The Republic*, who does Plato argue that aristocracy is a superior form of government to democracy? Do you agree with his criticisms of democracy? Use textual evidence to support your answer.
*Note: This is done using the Penguin Classics edition of *The Republic* translated by Desmond Lee, ISBN 978-0-140-45511-3 - thus, any differences in page numbers are due to the edition used.*

Democracy is seen in the modern world as the standard form of government, anything else is either a reversion to the past or an unwelcome innovation. Plato, however, argues that democracy is a flawed form of government and that aristocracy is always better when a specific class of people can be trained to rule. Plato's twin criticisms of democracy are that it is inherently unstable and fundamentally incapable of remaining just over time. I disagree with these criticisms and believe that a well-founded democracy is the most stable and just form of government.

To the point of stability, Plato argues that the leaders of democracy are always subjects of the masses, instead of the masses being subject to the leaders as in an aristocracy. As he says, "Then democracy originates when the poor win, kill or exile their opponents, and give the rest equal civil rights and opportunities of office ... We said that no one who had not exceptional gifts could grow into a good man unless he was brought up from childhood in a good environment and trained in good habits. Democracy with a grandiose gesture sweeps all this away and doesn't mind what the habits and background of its politicians are; provided they profess themselves the people's friends, they are duly honored."(Lee, 292-294). I think this criticism is fair, as it is a fundamental description of populism in the modern sense and the dangers it poses to democracy. However, this is not the fault of the institution of democratic(or in the modern sense, republican) government, but rather the fault of the environment - the people, the media, and special interests - that elevate these populists. Governance by the people is not inherently unstable, but rather the people are easily swayed by demagogues and populists. In fact, despite Plato's plan for the elevation of the philosopher kings, all historical experience shows that those groups are just as susceptible to corruption and demagoguery as the masses are. This is not a flaw of democracy, but rather a flaw of human nature, and one that a democracy can recover from more easily than an aristocracy by that same nature.

Plato's assertion that justice cannot be maintained in a democracy is based on the character of the masses on which it is based. He believes that a ruling class would bring up the next rulers in a more disciplined and just manner compared to the masses in a democracy who yearn for liberty so completely that anarchy is the only relief. As he says, "you find that the minds of the citizens become so sensitive that the least vestige of restraint is resented as intolerable, till finally, as you know, in their determination to have no master they disregard all laws, written or unwritten."(Lee 300). Plato then asserts that control and order are then demanded by the masses in reaction to the anarchy, and a popular leader is elevated to the position of tyrant, "Then how does the popular leader start to turn into a tyrant? ... The mob will do anything he tells them, and the temptation to shed a brother's blood is too strong. He brings the usual unjust charges against him, takes him to court, and murders him, thus destroying a human life, and getting an unholy taste of the blood of his fellows. Exiles, executions, hints of cancellation of debts and redistribution of land follow, till their instigator is inevitably and fatally bound either to be destroyed by his enemies, or to change from man to wolf and make himself tyrant."(Lee 303). I think this is a fair criticism and is borne out by historical experience, from Donald Trump to the brothers Gracchi. However, the fault begins and ends systemically - that the situation can arise in the first place. Democracy is inherently ill-constructed when a popular leader can be elevated to the position of promising or delivering on these things. The desire for liberty has proven profitable to societies for all of human history, and this desire is not a fault but a virtue of the human condition. A society ruled by even the most just of philosopher kings is not more just over an extended period than a society ruled by masses all working in their own self-interest, coming together to circumstantially benefit the whole. 

In conclusion, Plato has some fair criticisms of democracy - but instability and injustice are not inherent to any democratic system, but rather are the individual faults of people at a singular moment. From a long-term perspective, democracy is at its foundations the most stable and fair form of government, while providing the most liberty to its citizens.
