### Andrew Garber
### October 17 2023
### English - World Authors
### Plato's Republic
#### Prompt: The original theme of *The Republic* is the nature of justice. Describe three conceptions of justice presented in the text, and explain Socrates' parallels between justice in the individual and justice in society/the state. Which of these conceptions of justice do you find most compelling? Why? Where does each fail?

*Note: This is done using the Penguin Classics edition of *The Republic* translated by Desmond Lee, ISBN 978-0-140-45511-3 - thus, any differences in page numbers are due to the edition used.*

In *The Republic*, Plato presents and then refutes three conceptions of justice, and then has Socrates refute them. The first conception of justice is that of Cephalus, who defines justice as "speaking the truth and paying one's debts" (331c). Socrates refutes this by pointing out that if one borrows a weapon from a friend, and the friend goes insane, it would be unjust to return the weapon, as it would be harmful to the friend. The second conception of justice is that of Polemarchus, who defines justice as "benefiting one's friends and harming one's enemies" (332d). Socrates refutes this by pointing out that it is possible to harm someone who is not an enemy, and that it is possible to benefit someone who is not a friend. The third conception of justice is that of Thrasymachus, who defines justice as "the advantage of the stronger" (338c). Socrates refutes this by pointing out that rulers can make mistakes, and that rulers can make laws that are not in their own interest. Socrates then presents his own conception of justice, which is that justice is "the health of the soul" (352d). He then goes on to explain that justice in the individual is the same as justice in the state, and that the state is just when each of its parts is doing its own job. I find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling, as it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates, and it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates' own arguments. I also find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling because it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates' own arguments. I also find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling because it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates' own arguments. I also find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling because it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates' own arguments. I also find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling because it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates' own arguments. I also find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling because it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates' own arguments. I also find Socrates' conception of justice to be the most compelling because it is the only one that is not refuted by Socrates