### Andrew Garber
### September 26
### English: World Authors
### Plato's Ideal Society Summary Session

#### Summary Session Prompt: What is Plato's Ideal society as outlined in *the Republic?* What are the features of this society. What are the three classes, their roles, and the broader meaning of separating people into these classes. By what means are these classes stratified. Use textual evidence to support your answer.
*Note: This is done using the Penguin Classics edition of *The Republic* translated by Desmond Lee, ISBN 978-0-140-45511-3 - thus, any differences in page numbers are due to the edition used.*

The thought of an earthly utopia appears inherent in the human condition, an aspiration for a perfect society and a perfect world free from the evils of the world. Plato, in his *Republic*, outlines his ideal society, though instead of a fundamental preconception that the world in his society will be perfect, it is instead a society designed in full awareness of the failures and inherent nature of the human condition. Plato's ideal society is unique in the modern Western mind, in his stratification of society into definitive classes, and his categorical rejection of democracy as incapable of producing a just society. 

The first class of Plato's society is the Guardians, those charged with the protection of the state. This might seem somewhat backwards, as Athens and almost all of the other states - with the notable exception of Sparta - used citizen-soldiers who fought, and then returned to their farms. This objection was voiced by Glaucon saying, "But can't the citizens fight for themselves?" (Lee 62), to which Socrates responds, "Not if the principle, on which we all ... agreed when we started constructing our state ... that one man could not do more than one job or profession well."(Lee 62). This is a critical part of the stratification of the society, that a singular profession: violence, requires special training in both the physical and philosophical realms to perform it well. This special training, and their nature that allows them to both be purveyors of violence and recievers of philosophical tenets, places them as the ideal leaders of a society. This is well exemplified in the discussion between Socrates and Glaucon regarding the need for both philosophical and physical training, "that each must have the keen perceptions and speed of pursuit of his quarry, and also strength to fight if need be when he catches it ... And also courage, if he is to fight well ... And no horse or dog or any other creature can be courageous if it has no spirit ... We know therefore what physical qualities our Guardians must have." (Lee 64). This seeming simplicity of the Guardians is deceptive, as Socrates immediately raises the question of the temperament of the Guardians, "But if they have these qualities, Glaucon, won't they be aggressive in their behavior to each other and to the rest of the community ... And yet they ought to be gentle towards their fellow citizens and dangerous only to their enemies; otherwise they will destroy each other before others can destroy them."(Lee 64). This is the critical complexity of the Guardians, that they must be in turn aggressive and restrained. Socrates compares them to guard dogs, knowing friend or foe simply by recognition, a form of knowledge, and philosophy is nothing if not the love of knowledge. By stepping through the ideological construction of a Guardian, Socrates creates the pathway to which enlightened leadership of a society can be achieved.

The Auxiliaries are a middle class that sits below the Guardians in terms of their philosophical training but are still educated to wield power wisely, for the inner defense of the city and the maintenance of public order. The selection criteria for Auxiliaries is no less strict than that for Guardians, though the real selection of rulers *from* the Guardians is much more so, the Auxilies both for physical and philosophical attitude, but also a special kind of love for their city. Their job is a kind of military police, taking orders from the Guardians, and enforcing them on the rest of the city. As Socrates says, "'And again the best farmers are those who have the greatest skill at farming, are they not?' 'Yes.' 'And so if we want to pick the best Guardians, we must pick those who have the greatest skill in watching over the community.' ... 'So we must choose from among our Guardians those who appear to us to be most likely to devote their lives to doing what they just to be in the interest of the community ... 'Strictly speaking, then, it is for them we should reserve Guardian in its fullest sense, their function to see that friends at home shall not wish, nor foes abroad be able to, harm our state: while the young men whom we have been describing as Guardians should more strictly be called Auxiliaries, their function being to assist the Rulers in the execution of their decisions.'"(Lee 113-115). While the role of Auxiliary might seem to be a demotion, a lesser task, in comparison to the Guardians, when thought about in terms of real aptitude, all positions are equal, everyone doing what they are best at. The maintenance and the execution of the decisions of the Guardians are all critical tasks: the Guardians would have little purpose if no one was there to enforce their decisions, and the Auxiliaries would have no purpose if external threats were not dealt with by the Guardians.

The third class, the Producers, are simultaneously the lowest in view of their role in the functioning of the state while also being the only class allowed to hold property, and thus extremes of wealth or poverty. Little time is spent on the Producers, as they are assumed to just *be*, and the only real discussion of them is in the context of the Guardians and Auxiliaries. The Producers are the farmers, the craftsmen, the merchants, and the traders, the people who make the society function. They are the ones who produce the food, the goods, and the services that the Guardians and Auxiliaries need to survive. They are the masses that the Rulers rule over, and the Guardians and Auxiliaries protect. The producers fall into the background, as a sort of framework class that provides for the rest of society, but are not mentioned in the context of philosophy, or the nature of the state, only briefly referenced in the context of Plato's views on procreation. Namely, that while the Producers should be allowed to procreate, a kind of preferential 'expectation' of philosophical and physical quality should be placed on the children of Guardians and Auxiliaries, and that while future Guardians *might* be found in the children of Producers, it was significantly less likely.

In conclusion, the stratified society of Plato's Ideal Society is largely organized according to the philosophical and physical aptitude of the members of the society. The Guardians are the protectors from foreign threats, and the class where the Rulers of the society are drawn from, the Auxiliaries are in charge of the maintenance of public order, and the executors of the Guardians' will, and the Producers are the masses that make the society function. This systematization of society to optimize the human condition in the context of a society is a unique approach to the problem of maintaining the stability of a society, though not practical in the modern world. Nonetheless, Plato's Republic does offer the interesting ideal of a "Philosopher Ruler", a benchmark that is still well worth striving for in the modern world.

## Grade:
 Excellent work in answering the prompt clearly and without equivocation.  Pointed and clear. 

Two notes:  
1) check your grammar / structure:  no joke, you don't want to lose the reader with sentences that do not use the correct punctuation / prepositions etc -- it changes the way you read the work.  Commas are not the answer to everything - sometimes a well placed dash, semicolon or even breaking the sentence up into smaller sentences is the better choice for clarity. Silly spelling errors = lack of proofread.  In the same vein - repeated use of same word in a given sentence seems thoughtless ... World ....world.  Society ... society. Etc. 

2) the Auxularies quote was relevant - but too large a section. The end was really what you could have used and blended the understanding of the earlier part into your text without direct attribution. 

Overall, an A. Nice work! 
