### Andrew Garber
### Jan 18 2023
### CLEP Western Civilization I
### Chapter 16: Colonialism

#### Holy League
 - The term Holy League can refer to many different groups that were in existence fairly close together (considering the time frame). The time period we are considering for this lesson is the 16th century. A Holy League can describe any allied group involving the Papacy or a religious dispute. 
 - Leagues generally had their own name to help specify their purpose. For example, the League of Venice was a Holy League organized in 1495 including Pope Alexander VI, Emperor Maximilian, Ferdinand of Aragon and some Italian city-states, like Milan and Venice. This league's purpose was to expel King Charles VIII (King of France) from Naples.
 - Holy Leagues can also be named by their years of existence. For example, the Holy League of 1510-1513 was established by Pope Julius II and included Emperor Maximilian, Ferdinand of Aragon, Henry VIII (of England), the Papacy and Swiss soldiers. The Swiss soldiers had once been paid mercenaries but were then under their own command. This league's purpose was to gain control over France's influence in Italy. Although France was dominant in the fight against the League initially, its influence was soon stamped out completely.
 - Another league, the Santa Junta, was established in 1520 by a group of Castilian nobles. The League was formed to oppose the King of Spain/Emperor Charles V. The League was defeated in 1521 and the King of Spain was able to maintain his power.
 - However, more notable than this, were the Holy Leagues aimed against the Ottomans. The Holy League of 1538-1540 was formed as an alliance between the Papacy, Venice and Charles V. Charles V was the ruler of the Habsburg Empire. The League formed in the early months of 1538 with the hopes of destroying Ottoman control in the Mediterranean Sea and Near East. The Ottomans had been growing in power since the 14th century.
 - Venice and Charles V had been involved in other battles with the Ottomans during the 1530s. Charles had regained control over Tunis and won a huge naval battle over Barbarossa. Venice was fighting to keep its trade routes safe from attack. However, they were not successful in creating roads into the Turkish threat. France had been involved in both financial and military agreements with the Ottomans, which were mostly agreed upon secretly.
 - Charles intended to create a crusade to overtake control of Constantinople. Charles and Venice were at odds and didn't totally trust each other. Pope Paul III had to get involved under the pretext of a maritime fleet to convince them to become allies. This was the beginning of the Holy League. The maritime fleet met at Corfu in the spring of 1538. The alliance hadn't really eradicated any of the resentment between Venice and Charles.
 - When a battle took place in Preveza in 1538, the reluctance of Charles' troops to let Venice be victorious led to an advantage for the Ottomans, who proceeded to overpower the fleet. Infighting continued between Charles and Venice, leading Venice to abandon the League to challenge the Ottomans without any other allies. Charles attempted to fight as well in 1541, but inclement weather damaged the fleet before it could even arrive at its destination. The Ottomans remained in control of the Mediterranean Sea.
 - Turkish and Islamic control generally continued to grow over the following years. The Ottoman Empire remained strong despite battles with their protectorates. In the early 1570s, Islamic troops defeated Cyprus, which was under the control of Venice and a strong Christian area. Islamic forces also took Tunis, in Tuniisia. This was enough to convince Pope Pius V to form another Holy League in 1571, which was commanded by Don Juan/John - he won a major battle against the Ottomans in Lepanto. However, the Ottomans were able to recover and continue their control over the Mediterranean Sea, though not fully as far West as they had been before.

#### The Long War: Christians vs Ottomans on Land
 - The Long War or Fifteen Years' War occurred from about 1591 to around 1606. This was one of the numerous wars between the Habsburg Monarchy and the Ottoman Empire. The war began when the Kingdom of Hungary was defeated by the Ottoman Empire. The groups involved in this war were the countries that made up the Habsburg Monarchy: Transylvania, Wallachia (Romania), Moldavia, and the Ottoman Empire. The Habsburg monarchy included Austria, Hungary, Croatia, and Bohemia. Eventually, Ferrara, Tuscany, Mantua and the papacy also became involved in the war.
 - After several clashes starting in 1591, the war began in July of 1593. At this time, the Ottoman army launched a military campaign against the Habsburg Monarchy. In 1595, a Christian alliance of European powers was created by Pope Clement VIII against the Turks, and a treaty of alliance was signed in Prague by the Holy Roman Emperor, Rudolf II, and the prince of Transylvania. Later, Aron Voda of Moldavia and Michael the Brave of Walachia joined the alliance.
 - In the east, Michael the Brave of Wallachia started a campaign against the Ottomans in 1594. He took control of several castles near the Lower Danube. At the same time, Moldavian allies defeated the Turks in parts of Moldova. Michael sustained his attacks deep within the Ottoman Empire, taking control of several forts and even reaching as far as Adrianople. Eventually, his forces came very close to Constantinople.
 - The war continued at the Battle of Calugareni in 1595. This event was considered one of the most important battles between the Ottomans and the Wallachians. Although the Wallachians won the battle, Michael's lack of resources forced him to soon flee with his troops and wait for help from Transylvania or Austria. The Battle of Mezokeresztes took place in the territory of Hungary on October 24-26, 1596. This was considered a turning point in the war. The combined Habsburg-Transylvanian forces of approximately 45-50,000 troops was defeated by the Ottoman army after Christians, thinking the battle was over, started looting the Turkish camp.
 - Despite their victory, the Turks realized for the first time the ability of Western weapons over the Ottoman weapons. This battle was a very important military encounter in Central Europe between a Christian army and Ottoman Turkish Army. It established that even a large Christian army was unable to win a major battle against the Turks. Christians were unable to win their strategic objectives. Soon, the war became reduced to small battles and the capturing and recapturing of fortresses by opposing forces.
 - The war between Wallachia and the Ottomans ended in late 1599 when Michael was unable to continue fighting due to lack of support from his allies.
 - The Peace of Zsitvatorok was the treaty that marked the end of The Long War. This event occurred on November 11, 1606. On the one hand, the Peace of Zsitvatorok confirmed the Ottomans' failure to gain control over any other Habsburg territories. However, it also stabilized conditions between the Habsburgs and the Ottomans. Finally, the treaty also delayed the liberation of Hungary for half of a century.

#### The Triangular Trade
 - The Triangular Trade was a system of trade between Europe, Africa and the Americas established in the 16th century. It started with European ships leaving Europe for Africa with finished goods like metals, guns, cloth, and clothes. In exchange for these, the Europeans bought slaves(largely from West African Kingdoms selling prisoners of war, though not exclusively) and gold. The slaves were then transported to the Americas, not just the Southern colonies but lots to the Caribbean and Brazil. The slaves were then sold to plantation owners in exchange for the things that the slaves actually produced: sugar, tobacco, cotton, molasses, and rum. These goods were then transported back to Europe to either be consumed or converted into finished goods(if it was a raw material like cotton). The cycle would then repeat itself.
 - The middle leg, from Africa to America, was by far the worst of them all - it was dozens or hundreds of slaves packed into a ship, with no room to move, and no sanitation. The mortality rate was very high, and the conditions were terrible. Without complete records, we'll never know for sure exactly how many Africans were forcibly removed from Africa and sent to the Americas, but historians estimate that it is somewhere between nine and eleven million people. The vast majority of these slaves were sent to the Caribbean and Brazil, and only a small percentage to the Southern colonies. The Southern colonies didn't really become mega-slave based economies until AFTER the American revolution, and especially after the invention of the cotton gin.