### Andrew Garber
### September 15 2023
### CLEP Western Civilization I
### Chapter 3: Ancient Greece

#### 3.1. The Minoans
 - The Ancient Athenians tell a story of Theseus, a man sent to Crete to be sacrificed to the minotaur. According to the story, Theseus killed the minotaur and won Athens' freedom from Crete.
 - Most people believe that the story of Theseus is a myth, and that there was no labyrinth, however a man named Sir Arthur Evans disagreed.
 - In 1900, Sir Arthur Evans began digging on the island of Crete, in a place known as Knossos. In the course of his dig, Evans uncovered a huge complex of interlinking rooms, much like a maze, or a labyrinth. The palace was adorned all around with symbolic bull horns, known as Horns of Consecration. Digging deeper, Evans uncovered a throne room and wall paintings of bulls and bull jumpers.
 - Evans believed that he had found the palace of King Minos, and that the story of Theseus was true. As Evans continued to dig, he found other things, including axe heads and records written on clay tablets. 
 - There is good evidence that the Minoans were first and foremost a trading people. Minoan culture really seems to have taken off in the early Bronze Age, around 2700 BCE, and quickly spread across the Mediterranean. Archaeologists have discovered Minoan wares all along the Mediterranean coast, from Egypt to Spain. Their most important trade goods seem to have been saffron, a yellow spice still much treasured today, and tin, which, when mixed with copper, creates bronze. This may help us to understand why the Minoan civilization thrived during the Bronze Age and fell from glory during the Iron Age, when bronze, and therefore tin, was no longer needed in such quantities.
 - After over a thousand years dominating the seas of the eastern Mediterranean, Minoan civilization declined sharply around 1450 BCE. Archaeologists disagree on what caused this decline. Some have claimed, as we noted above, that the advent of the Iron Age meant that people no longer needed so much bronze, and thus the market for Minoan tin declined, and with it the Minoans. Yet the most population explanation for the end of the Minoans was the eruption of the volcano on the island of Thera, and it could have caused a tsunami that wiped out the Minoan fleet and destroyed their cities.


#### 3.2. The Alphabet
 - The change from Cuneiform, symbols for words or sounds, to Phonemes solves a lot of problems because a standard alphabet to represent sounds can make thousands of words with only a few letters.
 - The Phoenicians seem to have begun this process. About 1050 BC, the Phoenicians did away with the symbolic pictographs of cuneiform and invented simple characters to represent specific sounds.
 - With its limited number of characters, the Phoenecian alphabet soon replaced all other writing forms in the West. By the end of the Neo-Assyrian empire, it had replaced cuneiform. All future alphabets would be derived from the Phoenecian model. Hebrew and Arabic are modern examples of a Phoenician-style alphabet or abjad, where characters represent only consonants, and the reader must supply the vowels from context.
 - The inclusion of vowels in an alphabet was a distinctly Greek invention. The Greeks got their version of the Phonetic alphabet from the Minoans, who used a script we now call Linear A. Bronze Age Greeks from Mycenae used Linear A, with some small adaptations to write in Greek. We call this script Linear B. These writing systems were abjads, consonant only alphabets like the Phoenician model.
 - Around 730 BC, a Greek wanted to write down the epic poems of Homer. This proved problematic, as Greek poetry requires one to record the length of vowel sounds. So, the Greeks came up with characters for seven vowels. It is interesting to note that we only have five. Recording the lengths of vowels was so important to the Greeks that they felt the need to distinguish a long 'E' (eta) from a short 'E' (epsilon) and a Long 'O' (Omega) from a short 'O' (omicron) From this fact, some have suggested that what we now recognize as an alphabet was probably invented for the sole purpose of writing poetry.
 - This simple alphabet created a massive literacy rate unparalleled in the ancient world, and it was why the Greeks led the Western World in culture for such a long time.

#### 3.3. Bronze Age Greece
 - For a very long time, scholars believed that the stories of the Iliad and the Odyssey were just that - stories. But one man, named Heinrich Schliemann, was certain that Troy and Mycenae were real places. He believed that Greek epic, when combined with the historical accounts of Herodotus and the geographical accounts of Strabo, provided enough detail to find these ancient cities of myth. Schliemann was not so much what we would call an archaeologist - more of a treasure hunter.
 - After years of searching, Schliemann found Troy, yet the Troy he found did not match the description in the Iliad. This Troy was built centuries later. The Troy he sought was buried beneath several layers of cities. It seems the Greeks were not the first to burn Troy to the ground, nor would they be the last. In his fervor to find the Troy of the Iliad, Schliemann destroyed the cities above it, making no effort to protect or even catalog their contents.
 - Having successfully found Troy, Schliemann felt confident that he could locate Mycenae as well, and oh, did he. The city he found was wondrous. Unlike Troy, which had been rebuilt and rebuilt several times after the Bronze Age collapse, Mycenae was already a ruin and tourist attraction by Roman times. As a result, Schliemann was unable to mess things up as he did in Troy. The first thing he discovered was a circular graveyard in which he found precious artifacts, including the Cup of Nestor and the Funeral Mask of Agamemnon.
 - Mycenaen civilization seems to have begun around 2300 BCE. They were heavily influenced by the Minoans. By 1700 BCE, Mycenae was a powerful city in its own respect and began to build the citadel that Schliemann discovered. Around the 15th century BCE, Minoan Civilization collapsed, probably due to the explosion of Thera, a volcanic island. The ensuing tsunami seems to have shaken up the entire eastern Mediterranean. In the power vacuum left by the Minoans, Mycenae rose in power. From 1400-1200 BCE, Mycenae expanded its rule, eventually conquering Crete for themselves and sacking the city of Troy. 
 - However the Bronze Age Collapse hit Mycenae hard. By sea, the invasion of the sea peoples tore Mycenae's maritime empire to pieces. By land, a mysterious people known as the Dorians invaded from the north. Like the rest of the civilized world at the time, Mycenae could not withstand such a sustained assault and became another victim of the Bronze Age collapse.

#### 3.4. Greek Colonization
 - Since the Dorians left us with no written records and very few material goods, we know almost nothing about Greece in the Dark Ages. Most of our knowledge is rather inferred from The Iliad and The Odyssey, which were composed in this age, and some scant archaeological findings. From these, we believe that the Greeks of the Dark Ages lived in autonomous village communities, ruled over by a king who was little more than a warlord.
 - Any assemblies were simply gatherings of warriors. There were no formal legal institutions, and crimes, like murder, were dealt with by vengeance on the part of the family. The economic situation was not much better. With no currency, trade was reduced to bartering. The Greeks of this age didn't even have a word for merchant.
 - It was during this age that the central beliefs of Greek religion and myth began to form. This age gave rise to most of the myths of the classical era. However, organized religion as we know it today, with professional priests and places of worship, was all but unknown.
 - This lack of centralized rule, combined with the need for self-sufficiency, drove Greek villages to develop the fiercely independent autonomy that would characterize them as city-states in the centuries to come.
 - By 800 BCE, the Greeks had shaken off their Dark Age doldrums. Villages united around central towns, and these towns grew into cities, and these cities, in turn, became city-states. The city-state emerged as the iconic political unit of Greece.
 - On the mainland, Athens, Sparta, Thebes and Corinth were established. Miletus appeared in Asia Minor. Naxos and Samos arose on the islands of the Aegean. As the populations of these city-states swelled, they soon outstripped their local resources. City-states began colonizing lands outside of Greece.
 - These were originally small, though they grew into large states of their own right. The most famous of these were in Sicily, and Southern Italy and were known as Magna Graecia, or Greater Greece.