### Andrew Garber
### October 26
### Western Civilization
### Chapter 7: The Dark Ages

#### 7.1. Christianity
 - The early church began with small groups of followers meeting in homes. The news of Jesus was spread by word of mouth. The message was strengthened by the acts of these early believers - people who gave up worldly possessions, shared them with those in need, and cared for the sick. This spreading of the story and meaning behind Jesus' death brought Christianity to many Roman cities. Because of clashes with the Jewish and Roman authorities, many early church leaders were killed for their beliefs.
 - As Christianity continued to spread, bishops and other leaders began to be appointed. A key development was when Emperor Constantine I began to support Christianity in the early 4th century, legalizing Christian worship for the first time and actively encouraged the religion. He also convened the First Council of Nicaea, which was a gathering of Christian bishops. This was the first major standardization of the Christian belief system. It established the relationship between Jesus and God the Father, and decided on a date for Easter, among other things. The support of Constantine I and future leaders eventually led to Christianity becoming the Roman state religion in 380 CE, a decision which accelerated its growth even more and spread it to the edges of the Empire.
 - More than this, as it became part of the empire's political system it cemented its place as a part of all future political systems after the fall of Rome(in the West).

#### 7.2. The Loss of Classical Learning
 - Much of the learning of the Roman Empire was lost after its demise due to the lack of a common language - when Latin was the language of the whole empire, it was easy to spread knowledge. However, after the fall of Rome, the languages of the various Germanic tribes became the dominant languages in the West. This made it difficult to spread knowledge, as there was no common language. The only people who could read and write were the clergy, and they were more concerned with religious matters than secular ones. This led to a decline in literacy and the loss of much of the knowledge of the Roman Empire.
 - As well as this, the Church wanted to stamp out classical ideas that went against Christian beliefs.
 - This had signficiant impacts, as Europe went from the most advanced, literate place on the planet to a place where most people were illiterate and had no knowledge of the past.
 - Technological advancement ground to a total halt, and nothing really changed for hundreds of years. 

#### 7.3. Germanic Tribes
 - Although the Visigoths and Ostrogoths were forces to be reckoned with for a short while in the Roman Empire, both groups fell into obscurity. Other groups, like the Franks and the Saxons, hold a stronger place in history. The Franks were originally from the area between the North Sea and upper Rhine River in Germany. They expanded into France in the fifth century. The Frankish leader Clovis converted to Catholicism and began battling against pagan barbarian tribes.
 - As they took control of France, the Germanic tribesmen began a cultural fusion with Romans in France. By allowing the two cultures to join together, the Franks created a new culture and became a part of the area's existence, rather than perpetually trying to hold a dominant control and eventually being driven out.
 - Can you guess what the Franks are called today? Eventually, the Franks would become the French!
 - The Anglo-Saxons were a group made up of tribes called Angles, Saxons and Jutes from Germany and Denmark. The Anglo-Saxons had invaded mainly in what we now know as England. Rather than assimilating and fusing cultures as the Franks did in France, the Anglo-Saxons found little of Rome's culture that they saw fit to absorb. They ignored Rome's legal system and followed only a Germanic tribal governmental structure. They eventually converted to Christianity, but it took much longer, and instead of keeping the Roman use of Latin, they used their own language. This led to the development of the English language. This is why when England is in a war, we called it the "Anglo-x" war, or in world war 2, the "Anglo-American" alliance.


#### 7.4. The Byzantines
 - The Byzantine Empire started as the Eastern Roman Empire in 330 CE when Constantine, a Roman emperor, founded Constantinople, the Roman Empire's new capital, on the ancient site of Byzantium.
 - 'Byzantine' is a 19th century term that modern scholars have applied to this culture and its people. Byzantines, on the other hand, called themselves 'Romans' from the beginning of the Byzantine Empire until its fall to the Ottomans in 1453, which was long after the Western Roman Empire collapsed in 476 CE. Thus, most of the history of Byzantium is a continuation of the Roman period, and most of the culture of Byzantium is a continuation of the Roman way of life.
 - The language of the Byzantine Empire also shifted during this time. From the reign of Constantine to Justinian, the official court language was Latin. This meant that laws and official documents were written in Latin. However, Greek was the primary spoken language. After Justinian's reign, Byzantine Greek became the primary language for both spoken and official written documents. However, Western Europe still spoke Latin, which caused a language divide in communication. This led to difficulties and confusion in terms of religious terminologies and laws.
 - Given the differences in language and customs, among other things, that developed over Byzantium's history, the Eastern Greeks and Western Latins endured what is known as the Great Schism in 1054. The two Churches, now the Greek Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church, had different beliefs concerning Jesus Christ, the nature of God, and the date of Easter. The two factions split, forming two separate religions that still exist today.
 - Tensions further rose in 1204, when the Latins launched the Fourth Crusade. The Fourth Crusade was intended to re-capture Jerusalem from the Muslims; however, the majority of the Latin forces did not make it to the Holy Land. Instead, they sacked Constantinople, which marked a major turning point in the history of the East-West Christian Schism.
 - In 1261, Michael VIII Palaeologos recaptured Constantinople from the Latins. Michael VIII's return to Constantinople also marked a rebirth in classical studies and traditional Byzantine education, which is called the Palaeologan Renaissance. The Byzantine Empire continued to flourish until the final sack of Constantinople by the Ottoman Turks.
 - The Ottoman Turks sacked Constantinople in 1453 and renamed the city Istanbul. The Ottomans were also primarily Islamic, so the majority of earlier churches were converted into mosques.  In this period, people were still speaking Byzantine Greek, but the language would eventually evolve into Modern Greek in the 19th century. Ultimately, Turkish culture took over, and the Byzantine Empire was no more.

#### 7.5. Heirs of Rome
 - At its height in the early second century AD, the Roman Empire was powerful and expanded into vast areas. However, it weakened and began to fall apart in the West after the invasion of Germanic tribes like the Goths, Vandals, Franks and Anglo-Saxons in the fifth century. In the eastern part of the Empire, though, a new culture developed in Constantinople, a large, important city in the Roman Empire. The society in this area included influences from both Romans and Greeks. It also included influences from the dominant Christian religion.
 - However, as Christianity spread, many people in this area developed disagreements with the church. Some of these disagreements were over the display of religious images (resulting in iconoclasm, or the destruction of religious images) and clergy members' rights. Eventually, the church split into two major divisions: Western Roman Catholicism and Eastern Greek Orthodox. In addition to this split, a preference for language further separated the eastern and western parts of the Empire. In the East, Greek was preferred, but in the West, Latin was dominant.
 - This would later cause even more problems, as translation differences and language barriers would cause confusion and conflict between the two sides.
 - Western Europe underwent a change in economy and politics as the Roman Empire declined. As Germanic peoples expanded in power, urban areas and systems of government declined and stratified. As people spread out into more rural areas, commercialism also underwent a decline. One of the only unifying factors left for peoples formerly of the Roman Empire was religion. Catholicism had spread and remained dominant over much of the Empire's lifespan. In those times of uncertainty, people were searching for something to provide continuity and authority. Although people no longer belonged to the Roman Empire, they could still belong to the Catholic Church.
 - Of course, Europe was not without its conflicts. But, when Germanic tribes invaded the Roman Empire with force, they were met with a new culture. Some tribes assimilated into this culture by adopting many of the practices they saw. For instance, after a victory in battle, a Frankish king named Clovis converted from paganism to Christianity, and his fellow tribesmen followed suit.
 - Eastern and Western Christians disagreed on several tenets of their religion. Regardless of the tension, responsibility to care for the people of the Christian nation fell on the pope. Left without a centralized government, the people of the Empire allowed the church to take over basic administrative functions. In addition to seeing to the basic needs of the people, the papacy also took responsibility for managing foreign political affairs. Without the papacy stepping in to take control of the Empire, civilization may have crumbled.
 - Another religion became dominant in the seventh century in an area known as Arabia. Islam is a monotheistic religion that became popular in the Middle East. Islamic nations did not separate church and state, but instead saw the two as completely intertwined. As Islam became popular and spread, Arabic rulers came into contact with Christians. Starting in 1096, Western Christians began to go east to battle their religious enemies in the Crusades. This led to Christian troops being reintroduced to classical texts that had been preserved by Easterners, a key ingredient of the eventual European Renaissance.

#### 7.6. Early Church Conflicts
 - The first threat to the church came in the 4th century AD. Although Catholic Christianity was growing in dominance among native Romans at the time, invading Germanic tribes, who moved into Roman territories from surrounding areas after being displaced by the Huns, brought with them a new form of Christianity called Arianism.
 - One of the key tenets of Catholic Christianity is the Holy Trinity - that the Father (God), the Son (Jesus) and the Holy Spirit are three aspects of the same divine being. On the other hand, Arianism is a form of Christianity in which believers thought that God, Jesus, and the Holy Spirit were three separate entities. The name comes from Arius, who created the Arian belief system. 
 - Basically, Arian Christians believed that God never changed or grew. However, Jesus was born and grew like a human. His changing nature meant that Jesus was not God and couldn't be a divine entity. Instead, God created Jesus. The belief that the Holy Trinity were separate but formed from a similar substance is known as homoiousios. The Catholic belief that all three pieces of the Holy Trinity were formed from the same substance is known as homoousios.
 - This conflict spread throughout the Christian nation. Arianism was officially condemned after the issuing of the Nicene Creed, which reinforced homoousion as correct. But, as Germanic tribes continued to invade the Roman Empire and converted to the Arian version of Christianity, eventually Arianism was even endorsed officially in some areas of the Empire. The conflict continued between Catholic and Arian Christianity in the Roman Empire until the popularity of Arian Christianity just died out (especially after many Germanic tribesmen reached Rome) and Catholicism became their dominant religion.
 - Another conflict in the early church was that of iconoclasm, or the intentional destruction of a religious image. Conflicts of iconoclasm developed over concerns of how religious images were treated during worship. Some people were concerned that worship may become directed towards the image rather than the person or being that it represented. The basis of this concern is in the Ten Commandments mentioned in the Old Testament of the Bible. The Commandments forbid the worship of idols. 
 - Iconoclasm was a problem in the Byzantine Empire, the inheritors of the Roman Empire, beginning in the 8th century. Like the Romans, the Byzantines were also Christians. Some in the empire grew distressed because there had been an increasing amount of religious imagery displayed. Earlier, an emperor had even included the image of Jesus on Roman coinage. Religious icons became the blame of the loss of military battles and economic decline. Muslims also had a history of iconoclasm, and their spread into Roman territory may have influenced natives to take up this practice. Icons were destroyed while at the same time the cross became a popular image for church decoration.

