### Andrew Garber
### November 16 2023
### Chapter 8 - The Early Middle Ages

#### 8.1. Feudalism and Charlemagne
 - Feudalism was a system of government/economics that was used in Europe during the Middle Ages(and in some places, even later). Fundamentally it was a system of obligations that bound lords and their subjects together in mutual obligation: the lord provided protection to his subjects(generally serfs), and in return the serfs provided labor and military service to the lord. Was this an optional system? No, it was not. The serfs were bound to the land, and could not leave without the lord's permission. Was this an equal system, once again no. Serfs had next-to-no rights, or leverage(with notable exceptions such as after plagues when labor was scarce or with peasant revolts) and were generally treated as property that came with the land.
 - Stepping into the feudal world of the Early Middle Ages, one character looms large: Charlemagne. He was the King of the Franks, what would later be known as France, he was a talented military commander, an able administrator(in respect to the time), and a devout Christian. He demolished the Lombards(Northern Italy), the Avars(Austria/Hungary), and the West German Saxons not already under his control. 
 - He also massacred something like 4,500 Saxons at Verden, and forced the survivors to be bapitzed into the Christian faith - these were ruthless measures, but they helped to ensure internal stability. 
 - For his eternal service to the Church and the office of the Papacy, Charlemagne was crowned Emperor of the Romans by Pope Leo III on Christmas Day, 800. This was a *huge* deal, as it established a divine right to rule for Kings(something that would be imitated by the Tsars, French Emperors, British Monarchs, and many, many others.)
 - Upon Charlemagne's death in 814, his empire, The Carolingian/Holy Roman Empire(the boundaries between the two are a bit fuzzy) was given to his son Louis the Pious. Eventually, the empire was split into three parts North-South, the middle kingdom which held Northern Italy, Southern France, Alsace-Lorraine, and the Low Countries could obviously not hold the twin borders, and was devoured by the other two kingdoms. Thus, what is now France and Germany were born(ish).

#### 8.2. Charlemagne's Holy Roman Empire
 - *Insert quip about how the Holy Roman Empire was neither Holy, nor Roman, nor an Empire*
 - In his position as Emperor, Charlemagne attempted to reinstate the cultural and political greatness of the Roman Empire - to mixed effect. Believing literacy could help in the process, he brought scholars to his realm to encourage education. Also, his rule saw the formation of monastic schools throughout the empire. With this emphasis on education, came a flowering of culture, known as the Carolingian Renaissance, a period of renewed emphasis on scholarship and learning. During this period the Carolingian minuscule, or a standardized form of writing, came into being. This form of writing would set the groundwork for the modern European printed alphabet, yet another success attributed to Charlemagne.
 - Also, nothing encapsulates this point more than the 11th century Song of Roland, an epic, yet rather fictional, poem highlighting the rule of Charlemagne. In it Charlemagne, the Holy Roman Emperor, was elevated to near god status, as a man beyond mortal wisdom. 

#### 8.3. Monasticism
 - Seeking to live within structure and severe self-discipline, monks have fervently pursued a continual awareness of the presence of God. Not only have they pursued this for themselves, they have often been responsible for reforming the Christian church, seeking to free it from the corruption power can bring. To grasp an understanding of monasticism, we're going to focus primarily on the Benedictine order of monasticism, tracing it from its inception to the Cluniac reforms. 
 - How well they have kept to their vows is frequently a matter of controversy, but the fact remains that they have been a powerful force in the history of the church.
 - It wasn't until around the middle of the 3rd century that the monasticism most of us think of when we hear the word 'monk' began to take shape. During this time, Egyptian Christians began pulling away from secular life, cutting themselves off from all and any human interaction. Perhaps one of the most famous of these hermit monks was St. Anthony. Tradition tells us he actually spent years in the land of Egypt during which time he never once came in contact with another human being. For these hermits, a life of complete detachment from the secular world was of extreme importance.
 - The father of western Monasticism is largely credited to Benedict of Nursia, he removed himself from the secular world in an attempt to remove the contamination of their sinful world. However, unlike many hermits, Benedict made the decision to re-enter society. Ironically, instead of living in solitude, he began attracting followers, who, within time, became a community of Christians who desired to live free from Earthly and fleshly desire. At their Earthly helm was Benedict of Nursia with a code of conduct of sorts, which came to be known as the Benedictine Rule. This rule, which came to be the guide for most monastic practices, held three things at its core. First, monks were to live a life of poverty. Second, monks were to live a life of chastity and celibacy. Third, monks were to submit to the authority of the monastic community. In order to maintain this life, Benedictine monks followed, and still follow, a strict life of scheduled prayer. 
 - The Benedictine order of monks was not free from corruption, as evidenced by the Cluniac reforms. The Cluniac Reform was a Benedictine movement founded by William the Pious, Duke of Aquitaine, around the year 910. This call for reform sought to rid the Church of the influence of secular rulers and authorities. Under their influence, the Church had begun practicing simony, or the selling of Church positions to the highest bidder. This was extremely problematic, because in effect, bishops and archbishops were becoming lords and nobles, raising troops and taxing the people.
 - Seeing this corruption, William the Pious and the monastery of Cluny refused to submit themselves to the authority of local lords. Instead, they would report directly to the Pope, while also demanding religious devotion from its members. Obviously, this didn't sit so well with the local lords on whose land the monastery sat. Nor did the feudal lords like being told their actions were, shall we say, less than 'Godly.' However, with the support of powerful Popes and church officials, the beliefs of Cluny spread. In fact, by the 12th century, over 1,000 monasteries were members of the Cluny congregation.

#### 8.4. Carolingian Art:
 - Now, empires are notoriously tricky things to administer in the best of times, and Europe in the 9th century was hardly the best of times. Charlemagne needed literate scribes to facilitate communication across the empire. Yet, literacy was all but nonexistent in Western Europe at the time.
 - To solve this problem, Charlemagne turned to the few literate people still left in the West: monks. He received the aid he required from some princes of the Church: Archbishop Egbert of Trier, Bishop Bernward of Hildesheim and Abbot Odo, who founded the Monastic order of Cluny. Yet, perhaps Charlemagne's greatest ally in the Church was Alcuin of York. With the help of the Church, Charlemagne established schools of literacy across his empire.
 - The art of illumination had been around for a few centuries and had reached new heights of complexity and beauty in Ireland, where Irish monks created intricate works like the Book of Kells. The Carolingians were not really innovators in this field, but what they used it for was far different - it was an instructional tool. The illustrations aren't there to inspire, but rather to help young scribes in training make sense of written Latin.

#### 8.6. The Vikings
 - History does remember the Vikings for their exploration, but instead for their barbariety.This is not surprising, as most of our accounts of the Vikings come from the victims of their raids. And indeed, Viking raids were a quick and brutal affair. The Vikings did not come to conquer, they came to steal everything of value and leave.
 - We can learn a lot about how these raids went by looking at the heart of Viking culture: the longship. As the name implies, the Viking longship was a long ship with banks of oars on either side and sometimes a sail. Viking longships were capacious, able to hold a large company of warriors and whatever booty they might acquire. Viking longships had a shallow draft, allowing them to pull right up to the coast or even up a river for an amphibious assault. Viking longships were symmetrical, allowing them to reverse direction without turning around. This feature probably evolved from the need to navigate around icebergs in the frozen water of the North; however, it proved equally useful for making a quick getaway after a raid.
 - The Vikings became a terror for the people of Northern Europe(and even the Mediterranean), and much of the historical and cultural memory of the Vikings is as disruptors of the civilized world. However this disruptive role proved hugely influential on the history of Europe.
 - The Vikings essentially turned the tide in Europe from centralized imperialism to decentralized feudalism. Viking raids began stepping up around the end of the 8th century, just as Charlemagne was trying to unite Europe into the Carolingian Empire.
 - This centralized empire was not suitable to deal with the amphibious raids of the Vikings. Try as he might, Charlemagne could not possibly hope to defend thousands of miles of coastline from Viking invasions. Moreover, since the shallow Viking longships could travel upriver, not even the inland empire was safe, as the Vikings proved quite clearly a century later by laying siege to Paris in 885. Charlemagne's empire was so short-lived because it could not provide the most basic services an empire is supposed to provide its subjects: peace and protection. As Charlemagne's empire fell apart, Europeans needed to find a new way to protect themselves against these Viking raiders, something local and small enough to be responsive but powerful enough to protect the people and their property.
 - This marks the birth of feudalism, a system in which local lords tax their people to support small armies and build fortifications. Though feudalism would eventually be used against the common people, giving it the negative connotation it has even today, at its inception feudalism actually was meant to protect the people from invading Vikings.
 - In the late 8th century, they settled in the British Isles, establishing footholds in Scotland, Ireland and England. In the 9th century, a group of Vikings called the Rus built a colony to serve as a hub for the lucrative slave market. The names stuck in more ways than one: the Rus gave their name to Russia, while the people they enslaved still bear the name Slav. In the beginning of the 10th century, the French attempted to pay off the Vikings by giving them Normandy. 

#### 8.7. Armored Knights
 - The Knight is perhaps the most iconic image of medieval warfare, with his armor, his horse, and his lance. These knights were the tip of the spear, literally and figuratively, of the feudal army, generally thought to be worth 10 common soldiers.
 - The point of the knight is to charge into the enemy line wielding a long spear or a lance. Done alone, this tactic would fail. But if you take a few hundred knights, you can form them into a wedge. You then send that wedge of knights charging into the enemy with their lances lowered. Usually, the mere sight of tons of steel and murderous flesh hurtling toward them is enough to put defenders to flight. Failing that, the knights would crash into the enemy ranks, shattering their formation and giving your foot soldiers a chance to close in and finish them off.
 - Originally the protection of Knights was simply leather lamellar armor, but as time went on, this armor became more sophisticated, going from leather to chain and then eventually plate armor.
 - The problem of plate armor is that it is unbelievably heavy. When trying to ride a horse with half your body weight in steel strapped to you, it is hard to stay on the horse. The solution to this problem was the stirrup. The stirrup is a simple device, a loop of metal that hangs from the saddle and allows the rider to put his foot in it. This simple device allows the rider to use his legs to help support his weight, making it much easier to stay on the horse and able to control a lance.
 - The societal implications of the knight were huge. Indeed, the whole feudal structure was designed to funnel an area's resources to a few individuals so that they could produce these unstoppable but expensive war machines. A king would grant lands and titles and, in exchange, his vassal would provide armored knights as well as foot soldiers. This system allowed a king to draw upon a large host of armored knights without having to support and outfit those expensive warriors himself.
