### Andrew Garber
### November 28 2023
### CLEP Western Civilization I
### Chapter 9: The Warm Medieval Period

#### 9.1. The Medieval Warm Period
 - Between the years 1050 and 1300, Europe underwent an agricultural revolution. Crop yields multiplied by at least threefold. Europe's population followed suit, tripling in less than three centuries. The average European lifespan increased by as much as two decades.
 - After centuries of dormancy, merchants and artisans finally began to reappear. After the chaos and confusion following the fall of the Roman Empire, the medieval world was finally beginning to stabilize.
 - This stabilization was largely due to two factors, the first of which was a shift in climate which made Northern and Central Europe more hospitable to agriculture. The second was the end of the Viking raids, which had destabilized and terrorized Europe for centuries.
 - Around 950, Europe entered the Medieval Warm Period. Climatologists speculate that earth's temperature might have increased by as much as one degree centigrade. For about 300 years, Europe became a much warmer and dryer place. Why this happened is still pretty unclear, but it is speculated that it might have been due to a change in volcanic activity, or something causing a temporary(on planetary timescales) wobble in the earth's orbit. Whatever the cause, it was hugely helpful to Europe.
 - As the weather warmed, Viking invasions started to step down. Perhaps the Vikings were finally able to produce their own agricultural surpluses, and no longer felt the need to raid their neighbors in the south so often.
 - At the same time, centralized governments in Europe were becoming stronger, and a real sense of stability was returning to Europe for the first time since the collapse of the Roman Empire. In this period of relative peace, Europeans no longer needed to cluster around the local fortifications of their lords. They were finally able to disperse and settle new lands.
 - Aristocrats gave up their hunting grounds in the interest of generating profit from agricultural surpluses. Forests retreated as isolated pockets of agriculture spread until they at last met. The untamed woods of Northern Europe gave way to field after field, as far as the eye could see.
 - Critical to this agricultural boom was the introduction of the heavy plow, which was finally able to really break through the heavy clay that characterized so much of Northern Europe, the three-field system which allowed for a modicum of crop rotation, and the horse collar, which meant that beasts of burden were finally able to pull plows and carts without choking to death.

#### 9.2. The Great Schism
 - The Great Schism of 1054, also known as the 'East-West Schism,' divided Christianity, creating Western Catholicism and Eastern Orthodoxy. Although 1054 is the official date of this divide, tensions between the East and the West had been brewing for years. What finally broke the camel's back was the question of Papal Authority.
 - In around the year 330, Constantine moved the political capital of the Roman Empire from Rome to Constantinople. From there, he managed to rule the entire empire. However, this was no easy task, and soon the empire broke down into Western and Eastern Empires, each with their own emperors. In fact, Theodosius, who died in 395 CE, was the last emperor to rule over both halves. Although the two halves seemed to be separated politically, the Christian Church still tried to maintain its power, though this wwas difficult due to poor communication.
 - The question of Papal Authority was simply whether the Pope had authority over Eastern Bishops. The Pope wanted to further his control over the entire Church, while the Eastern Bishops were willing to give the Pope simply honorary authority while maintaining autonomy. The East even went as far as calling their Bishop of Constantinople the ecumenical patriarch, meaning 'universal patriarch.' This was a direct challenge to the Pope's authority.
 - In 1054, the power struggle bubbled over when the Patriarch of Constantinople, Michael Cerularius, dared to condemn some of the religious practices of the Western Church. He even went as far as to close down Eastern churches that followed the same practices. The Pope and the Patriarch excommunicated each other, and the Great Schism officially began.
 
#### 9.3. William the Conqueror
 - Despite the lack of historical records from the late dark ages and early medieval period, a few people succeeded in making their marks on the history books - both in their times, and through their descendants. One such person was William the Conqueror, arguably the most important figure in the history of England(though he was actually French).
 - Born in Normandy, of modern-day France, William became Duke of Normandy at a very early age. As duke, he set his sights on a unified Normandy under his power, and accomplished this great task by about 1060 CE. Now remember, he did this during the Dark Ages, so obviously this guy had some smarts and some military might. With all this going for him, he set his sights beyond Normandy. This leads us to his dealings with England.
 - When Edward the Confessor, king of England, died in the year 1066, he left no heir to take the throne. However, William of Normandy was a relative of Edward, and you better believe he was more than willing to wear England's crown. Unfortunately for William, there were several other English noblemen who felt they deserved the crown, the most popular and powerful of whom was Harold Godwinson.
 - This story is actually quite a bit more complicated, but the gist of it is that both William and Harold believed that Edward had promised them the crown. Because Harold was actually *in* England, he was able to get crowned first. Making this messy situation even messier, The King of Norway, Harald Hadrada(yes, another person named Harold) also believed he had a claim to the throne. He invaded England, and was defeated by Harold Godwinson at the Battle of Stamford Bridge. However, Harold's victory was short-lived, as William of Normandy invaded England shortly thereafter.
 - Landing on the southern shore of England as Harold was marching north to meet Harald, William was able to get a fairly firm beachhead. After Harold defeated Harald(annoying), Harold Godwinson had to rush south to meet William. This was an incredibly difficult task, as he had to traverse effectively the entire length of England after just fighting a major battle to go and fight another major battle. He was able to do this, but his army was exhausted and depleted. William, on the other hand, was fresh and ready to win.
 - Setting up his army at the village of Hastings(calling it a city would be a stretch), William's machine of war was ready to go. Armored knights and archers together, with the backbone of the infantry were all ready to go and just mauled Harold's army. Harold was killed in the battle, and William was crowned King of England on Christmas Day, 1066.
 - While this cemented the Norman Conquest of England, William spent the rest of his reign dealing with revolts, revolts, and more revolts. The angle-saxons were not happy with their new French overlords, and William had to spend the rest of his life putting down rebellions. He died in 1087 while fighting in Northern France, and was succeeded by his son, William II.

#### 9.4. The Roman Catholic Church 
 - It's been said that every society needs structure in order to survive. In other words, someone's got to be in charge. If not, chaos ensues. After the 5th century fall of Rome, Europe found itself in just that - chaos. To fill the power void, the Medieval Church stepped up to give society order.
 - How successful this was is debatable, but it is without question that the Church exercised a gigantic deal of influence over both the day-to-day lives of the peasants and the political directions of the kings and emperors.
 - First, there were the priests. Priests were in charge of the individual parishes, or a small church area or district. These guys (and I do mean guys; there were no women priests), were the ones who had face-to-face interaction with the community. They provided sacraments, or religious ceremonies and rites, to the common people of the day.
 - Next up were the bishops, these were in large part a political position, as they were in charge of the diocese, or a large church area or district. They were in charge of the priests, and spent most of their time schmoozing with the nobility.
 - Above them are the archbishops, who were in charge of the archdiocese, or a large church area or district. They were not a really official position, they mostly just installed themselves at one point and then just kept it going for generations(obviously not their children, but you get the idea).
 - After archbishops, we come to cardinals. Cardinals were the most important, senior archbishops. Numbering no more than 24 during the Medieval period, Cardinals were originally the senior clergy within the Diocese of Rome. However, during the Middle Ages, senior bishops outside of Rome could also become cardinals. As the word 'cardinal' actually means 'hinge,' the cardinals supported the Pope. When a Pope died, the cardinals took over the administration of the church. Even more important, the cardinals held the power of choosing the next Pope, a responsibility they still carry today.
 - And this finally brings us to the Pope. The Pope is also known as the 'Bishop of Rome.' Believed to be the successor of St. Peter himself, the Pope was and is the earthly head of the Roman Catholic Church. As the head of the Medieval Church, the Pope made the final decision on the teachings of the Church. The Pope also got to decide who were the friends and enemies of the Church.

#### 9.5. Investiture
 - The Investiture Conflict of the 11th and 12th centuries is one of the most important controversies ever to arise between church and state.
 - To begin, the Investiture Conflict was a nasty conflict between the Pope and the Holy Roman Emperor over who held power to appoint or invest Church officials. Traditionally, the power to appoint Church officials was held by secular authorities whose rulers were not clergy and whose power was not derived from a spiritual basis. In other words, kings and emperors, not the Pope or bishops, handed out places of power within the Church.
 - Now, this isn't that big of a deal at the lower levels of Church hierarchy. However, when we realize the emperor had the right to appoint the Pope, it's pretty plain to see how much power accompanied the ceremony of investiture. Making things even more convoluted, the Pope then got to turn around and choose the next Holy Roman Emperor. In essence, the process became a giant political game of 'you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours!'
 - It really came to a head when a group called the Gregorian Reformers, who believed that the Pope was only answerable to God took an opportunity when the young Henry IV of Germany was crowned Holy Roman Emperor. All of a sudden, the Pope and related clergy were no longer willing to play the game and gathered in Rome to issue a decree that the Pope could only be elected by Cardinals.
 - In the year 1075, Pope Gregory VII took things a step further. In the Church statement known as the Dictatus Papae, the Church completely eliminated the practice of secular investiture.
 - This bold move didn't sit so well with Henry IV, who was a young boy at the time of the earlier In Nomine Domini statement, but who had now grown-up. Effectively, Henry IV told the Pope that he was no longer Pope, to which the Pope responded by telling Henry IV that he was no longer Emperor. Neither side could really do anything about it, so the investiture controversy continued.
 - However, the Pope got lucky on this one. When the power-hungry nobles of Germany realized the kingship was at stake, they saw it as an opportunity to gain more land and power. Not wasting any time, they rebelled against their king, in a revolt known as the Great Saxon Revolt. The rebels even went as far as to elect a guy named Rudolf to be their new king.
 - With his country in chaos, Henry IV waved the white flag to the Pope in the year 1077. In a dramatic scene known as the Walk to Canossa, tradition tells us the bedraggled king actually stood barefoot in the snow to apologize to Pope Gregory VII. However, this apology was short-lived. In 1081 King Henry IV came back with a vengeance. He captured and killed the rebel king, Rudolf, and set his sights on removing Gregory VII once and for all.
 - When Henry IV invaded Rome, Pope Gregory VII made a fatal error. In order to protect himself, he called on the Normans, or Vikings from modern-day France, for help. Although these Vikings from the north did manage to ward off Henry IV's forces, they also decided to rape and pillage Rome and its people, making the Pope, the guy who invited them in, rather unpopular. With this, Pope Gregory VII was forced to flee Rome, in essence, beating himself! After all the fighting for power, Pope Gregory VII died as an exile in Norman lands.
 - Sadly, neither his death nor the death of King Henry IV ended the Investiture Conflict. Each of their successors picked up where their predecessors had left off. Finally, in 1122, a compromise known as the Concordat of Worms was reached. As a rather flimsy statement, it removed the secular right of investiture, but gave secular leaders the right to have an unofficial say in the appointment of Church officials. This didn't really solve anything, but it did end the violence.

#### 9.6. The Lateran Councils
 - The First Lateran Council was called in 1123 and it was effectively a review of questions of Church discipline and basic religious beliefs. The council also officially condemned the practice of simony, which is the buying or selling of church offices.
 - The Second Lateran Council was called in 1139 by Pope Innocent II to condemn the heresy of Arnold of Brescia. Arnold was a monk who condemned the Pope, and the Pope was not happy about it.
 - The Third Lateran Council was held in 1179 and called by Pope Alexander III, it was a response to some radical groups called the Albigenses and Waldenses. These groups said that the Bible was the only authority, and that the Church was not a necessary part of salvation.
 - The Fourth Lateran Council, called by Pope Innocent III in 1215, was the most important of the Lateran Councils. It had a huge attendance, and mostly focused on the expulsion of non-Christians from the Holy Lands - in effect, Crusades! The council also condemned heresy, and made it a requirement that all Christians confess their sins at least once a year.