### Andrew Garber
### Independent Study 
### Case Study 4

From the Outline:
```markdown
III.1: What is the economic philosophy of the world government? How much intervention/interference does it have over the economy? 
 - III.1.a: Is it a free market, planned economy, or something in between? 
    - III.1.a.a: Hayek & Friedman.
      - III.1.a.a.i: Similarities and differences in their beliefs.
      - III.1.a.a.ii: Why central planning is impossible, at least not more efficiently or justly than the market.
    - III.1.a.b: Keynes & Beveridge.
      - III.1.a.b.i: Rawlsian Veil of Ignorance
      - III.1.a.b.ii: The New Deal
	- III.1.a.c: Marx & Engels
    - III.1.a.d: Case Study on East and West Germany, and the superiority of the West German model which is still visible.
    - III.1.a.e: Case Study on South and North Korea, and the superiority of the South Korean model which is *literally* visible from space.
		- III.1.a.f: Case Study on the United States and Finland, with the United States being a more free-market economy, and Finland being a comparatively more planned economy(democratic socialism).

```


## III.1: What is the economic philosophy of the world government? 

Discussions of government economic philosophy are some of the most contentious and divisive in both academia and society at large. While the term "government economic philosophy" is broad and can encompass a wide range of topics, the definition most useful for this examination is the government's role in the economy - specifically, how much intervention the government has in the economy. This is a spectrum, with polar opposites frequently but not always being correlated with political ideologies. What governmental structure the World Government has is a question addressed elsewhere in this paper, so this corollary will not be considered in this instance. At one far end of the spectrum is anarcho-capitalism, where the government plays no role in the economy save for the purchase of goods to facilitate its existence, largely to enforce contracts and protect property rights. At the other far end of the spectrum is communism, which can take a wide variety of forms, but in its purest form(as advocated by Marx and Engels) is an economy where the means of production are communally owned by the workers(the proletariat), and economic decisions are made by democratic vote to fulfill the needs of all citizens. This has proven impossible to implement in practice, but given that we are creating a theoretical government from scratch, we will consider it possible. However, it is important to note that communism has frequently been implemented as a command economy, where the state is the sole owner of the means of production as a "steward of the citizens"[^1] and makes all economic decisions on a theoretical basis of fulfilling the needs of all citizens.  In the middle of this spectrum is the descriptively named "mixed economy", where the government plays a role in the economy, but the majority of economic activity is left to the private sector--specifically, with private entities owning the means of production and acting in their self-interest. The government's role in a mixed economy is to regulate the private sector to remove monopolies, ensure fair competition[^2], and provide public goods and services that the private sector cannot or will not provide. 

Three different "groups" of economic philosophy, and some associated comparisons among nations that have adopted these philosophies(or subvariants thereof), are discussed in the following sections. Approximately mid-way between the mixed economy and anarcho-capitalism we find the first group, that of Friedrich Hayek and Milton Friedman. It is important to note that while Hayek and Friedman are often put together, they are not identical in their beliefs, however, they incorporate enough range while maintaining a similar core that they can be grouped for the purposes of this examination. The second group, just on the communist economy side of the mixed-economy midpoint, is that of John Maynard Keynes and William Beveridge. It is important to note that Beveridge was far less original in his proposed economic planning than Keynes, but was instrumental in providing the political steps to such an implementation as the Welfare State in the United Kingdom. Finally, the third group, at the communist end of the spectrum, is that of Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels, the originators of the communist political--and thus economic--philosophy. With our three groups established, we will then compare some nations employing these philosophies, and the results of their economic policies: East and West Germany, South and North Korea, and the United States and Finland. None of these comparisons are perfect illustrations of the economic philosophies they are meant to represent, but are simply the closest tangible examples of the philosophies in practice.

### III.1.a.a: Hayek & Friedman

Before noting the similarities in what they recommended for government economic policy, it is first important to note the differences in their beliefs - while they were fundamentally similar in many ways, they were not of one mind nor one "school"[^3]. The two great differences between the two, making their processes for reaching similar *policy* conclusions far different, are their views on monetary policy and methodology. Hayek, as a member of the Austrian school of economics, based his economic precepts on theoretical and philosophical grounds, while Friedman, as a member of the Chicago school of economics was an empiricist in his methods in much the same way as Keynes[^4]. When Hayek was awarded his Nobel Prize in 1974, he made this stark methodological difference clear in his acceptance speech, "The Pretense of Knowledge", saying, "The correlation between aggregate demand and total employment, for instance, may only be approximate, but as it is the *only* one on which we have quantitative data, it is accepted as the only causal connection that counts. On this standard there may thus well exist better 'scientific' evidence for a false theory, which will be accepted because it is more 'scientific', than for a valid explanation, which is rejected because there is no sufficient quantitative evidence for it."(Hayek, F). In this way, Hayek was a strong critic of the empirical methods of Keynes(and as a result, Friedman), and instead used a priori reasoning - technically less "scientific" than empirical methods, but based on humanistic logic and deduction. While in economics circle Austrian economics is often seen as a "fringe" school, not truly economics but rather a philosophy, and thus not to be considered in the same light as "real" economics, Hayek's Nobel Prize seems a strong refutation of this claim as well as the consistent praise of Austrian economics by other schools.

The most practicable difference between the two was their views on monetary policy. Friedman was the founder of monetarism, the belief that gradual adjustments in the money supply could stabilize economic activity under pressure of inflation, deflation, or recession. He was a supporter of a non-gold standard fiat currency, that money has value because as a society it is endowed as a store of value and medium of exchange. He supported this belief with a remark in his book, *Free to Choose*, "After World War II cigarettes were widely used as money in Germany during the period when the occupation authorities enforced ceilings on prices in legal currency that were well below the levels that would have cleared the market. The result was to destroy the usefulness of the legal money... Ludwig Erhard's monetary reform ended that instructive--and destructive--episode."(Friedman, M.). Hayek, on the other hand, desired a strong, stable, and non-inflationary currency and saw the gold standard as the poster child for such a currency. He was very much of the Austrian School of Economics canon in this regard, seeing money as "an institution which originates not in a decision by an individual or a group of people but as a spontaneous order arising out of countless uncoordinated efforts to overcome the problems and inefficiencies inherent in bartering. (Ravier, A). He was not advocating for a total return to the gold standard, as has been falsely claimed, but rather a return to a currency that was not subject to the whims of a central bank. In his book, *The Denationalization of Money*, he wrote, "The main result at this stage is that the chief blemish of the market order which has been the cause of well-justified reproaches, its susceptibility to recurrent periods of depression and unemployment, is a consequence of the age-old government monopoly of the issue of money. I have now no doubt whatever that private enterprise, if it had not been prevented by government, could and would long ago have provided the public with a choice of currencies, and those that prevailed in the competition would have been essentially stable in value and would have prevented both excessive stimulation of investment and the consequent periods of contraction."(Hayek, F.). While there is a well-justified critique here that legally nothing prevents private enterprises from doing this, Hayek's grander point was that stability in the money supply was a necessary component of a free market economy and a free society. In support of that point, he linked this to the research that would win him the Nobel Prize, the boom-bust character of the business cycle, that in varying the money supply in support of political goals, the government was sending inaccurate signals to the market leading to malinvestment and the subsequent bust, which would then inevitably become a justification for further government intervention. This political implication of an unstable money supply links back to *The Road to Serfdom*, that given an opportunity to intervene, even under just and moral pretenses, the government will always do so as it is within the nature of the individual in government to do so. Despite their differences, both Hayek and Friedman used their divergent beliefs on monetary policy as support for their protection and grounding of a free society, holding to the principles of liberty and freedom that they both held dear.

With these differences established--which may seem dramatic, but were more academic than principled--it is important to discuss the similarities in belief between these two men, which far outweigh their differences. First and foremost, both were strong advocates of the free market in how it served for the most efficient allocation of resources and as a fundamentally necessary component of a free society. Hayek, in his most famous work, *The Road to Serfdom*, wrote, "Wherever the barriers to the free exercise of human ingenuity were removed, man became rapidly able to satisfy ever-widening ranges of desire. ... To appreciate what it meant to those who took part in it, we must measure it by the hopes and wishes men held when it began... that by the beginning of the twentieth century the working-man in the Western world had reached a degree of material comfort, security, and personal independence which a hundred years before had seemed scarcely possible. ... With the success grew ambition--and man had every right to be ambitious."(Hayek, F.). Friedman, in his book *Free to Choose*, references Adam Smith in how the free market helps to positively impact the wealth of all members of society, "In the past century a myth has grown up that free market capitalism--equality of opportunity as we have interpreted that term--increases such inequalities [of wealth, income, and opportunity], that it is a system under which the rich exploit the poor. Nothing could be further from the truth. Wherever the free market has been permitted to operate, wherever anything approaching equality of opportunity has existed, the ordinary man has been able to attain levels of living never dreamed of before."(Friedman, M). These are strikingly similar sentiments in regards to the positive effects of the free market on society, and the bastion of a free society that the free market is. That both of them took their economic beliefs to societal and political conclusions is the critical point here, as it underscores how important it is to define the economic philosophy of the World Government as the foundation for building its political institutions upon, because doing the opposite would inevitably find the government as the arbiter of the economy, and thus the arbiter of society. In their beliefs on this matter, they touch upon a critical point of alignment, that the human desire for growth--growth in living standards, growth in opportunity, growth in wealth--is a fundamental part of human nature, something to be encouraged and not stifled. In stifling this growth, the government would be acting as if above human nature, and thus above the people it claims its legitimacy from. This point is the unavoidable subtext, and sometimes text, of their economic beliefs, and is a critical distinction from the other economic philosophies we will discuss.

More important than their sentimental similarity, however, is their policy similarity. Both were strong advocates of the free market[^5] and strong critics of the Keynesian economic policies that were the dominant drivers of government economic policy at the time[^6]. Both believed that in trying to ensure full employment, and thus equality of outcome, the government was not only overstepping its moral bounds but was also misallocating resources and stifling the growth of human wealth and prosperity. To properly define this alignment, we have to discuss the personal alignment of both men: both were liberals in a semi-classical sense. As Hayek says in *The Road to Serfdom* in a well-articulated explanation of the tenets of liberalism, "in the ordering of our affairs we should make as much use as possible of the spontaneous forces of society, and resort as little as possible to coercion ... in particular, all the difference between deliberately creating a system within which competition will work as beneficially as possible and passively accepting institutions as they are."(Hayek, F). These spontaneous forces of society are the individual's actions in society, and the positive-sum effects that come therefrom - Adam Smith's invisible hand ensuring that all parties in a transaction are better off than they were before. Friedman's broadside against central planning in *Free to Choose* is done in reference to the centrally-planned economy of the Soviet Union, "The attractiveness of different jobs in the Soviet Union often depends on the opportunities they offer for extralegal or illegal moonlighting. A resident of Moscow whose household equipment fails may have to wait months to have it repaired if he calls the state repair office. Instead, he may hire a moonlighter--very likely someone who works for the state repair office. The householder gets his equipment repaired promptly; the moonlighter gets some extra income. Both are happy."(Friedman, M). This example of the spontaneous forces of society--of human nature--naturally inclining towards the free market, a system of mutual benefit, and an anti-planned economy exemplifies the tenets of liberalism that Hayek and Friedman defended.

However both of these reference the salient point that both Hayek and Friedman recognized the economy as a system for the transmission of information, an epistemological system through the price and availability of goods and services. This is a point they both made, that no person, group of people, computer, or other entity could conceive of the variety of factors that define the "correct" number of goods and services an economy should produce and at what price. This is commonly known in economics as the "economic calculation problem", but has also been called the "knowledge problem", as it is fundamentally concerned with how knowledge[^7] is transmitted and used in economic planning. Hayek, in his Nobel Prize acceptance speech, "The Pretense of Knowledge", which spoke largely to this issue said, "Into the determination of these prices and wages there will enter the effects of particular information possessed by every one of the participants in the market process – a sum of facts which in their totality cannot be known to the scientific observer, or any other single brain. It is indeed the source of the superiority of the market order, and the reason why, when it is not suppressed by the powers of government, it regularly displaces other types of order, that in the resulting allocation of resources, more of the knowledge of particular facts will be utilized which exists only dispersed among uncounted persons, than any one person can possess."(Hayek, F). The critical factor in this statement is the "dispersed" nature of the knowledge among the participants in the market, such that no amalgamation of it could be more efficient than everyone acting based on their knowledge for their own self-interest. Friedman, in his book *Free to Choose*, makes the same point by quoting Leonard Read's essay, "I, Pencil", which he also wrote a foreword for, quoted here, "I know of no other piece of literature that so succinctly, persuasively, and effectively illustrates the meaning of both Adam Smith's invisible hand—the possibility of cooperation without coercion—and Friedrich Hayek's emphasis on the importance of dispersed knowledge and the role of the price system in communicating information that 'will make the individuals do the desirable things without anyone having to tell them what to do.'"(Read, L). As he *mentions* Hayek's work in this area, and combines it with the invisible hand of Adam Smith--the supreme metaphor of liberalism--the alignment of Hayek and Friedman on this issue is clear. Coercion, or more generally, government intervention in the economy, is not only unnecessary, but it is also counterproductive as **any** governing body, no matter how large, lacks the knowledge necessary to make the correct decisions.

The question remains, what is the benefit to the citizens of the World Government--**not** the World Government itself as measured by power over its people--of having a government aligned with the economic philosophy of Hayek and Friedman? Simply put, the benefit would be a world-spanning society that is free, prosperous, and just. The government would play the role of referee in the economy, ensuring only that the opportunity for market forces to decide market winners is preserved, and that equality of *opportunity*(no systemic barriers to entry, such as gender, ethnicity, or class) is maintained for the citizenry. The end-state of this would be a society where the individual is free to pursue their own ends, sometimes contrary to the ends of others, but when taken in the aggregate the society is better off for it. In addition, this society would be near-perfectly innovative, as with the elimination of barriers to movement and trade, the society would be able to take advantage of the dispersed knowledge of the market to the greatest extent possible, harness the greatest possible degree of human ingenuity, and combine to create goods and services that are the most desirable and useful to the most people. 

This is not to say that this government is *objectively* perfect, as no government can be. Optimizing for liberty and opportunity will always be done to the detriment of individual equality of outcome, which is a trade-off that should be examined. This is where the next set of thinkers, Keynes and Beveridge, found a middle ground between the free market and the communist economy, a semi-redistributionist welfare state that would, in their view, allow for some of the dynamism of the free market to be preserved and a degree of equality of outcome to be achieved.

### III.1.a.b: Keynes & Beveridge 

In the same way that Hayek and Friedman are often put together due to similarities in their political and economic beliefs, Keynes and Beveridge can be put together due to the similarities in what their policy implementations look like when put into practice. It is important to note that their actual recommendations are far from identical, but they are similar enough that they provide a 'band' of economic policy--and its effects on public policy--that can be analyzed in the same way as Hayek and Friedman. There are two critical points of difference between the two, which are the basis of their policy recommendations and their recommendations for the structural implementation of those policies. These differences--outstripped by their similitaries, but notable in defining the outer boundaries of their 'band' of thinking--are given context when examined under the lens of their professions: Keynes was an academic, and then a practicing economist, while Beveridge was a civil servant. These professions unto themselves do not arbitrarily lend support to either of their policy recommendations, but they are telling of the different methods and mindsets that each man held while conceiving of their policy recommendations and their basis.

Beveridge, an academic and later Lord in the House of Lords, was the author of the Beveridge Report--in reality, "Social Insurance and Allied Services"--which was the basis for the reorganization and expansion of the social welfare system in the United Kingdom. The report contained a comprehensive detailing of the problems of the existing welfare system, specifically regarding inadequecies, inconsistencies, and inequalities across the various disbursements and services. The report also contained a comprehensive plan for the reorganization and expansion of the welfare system, which included the establishment of a National Health Service, a comprehensive system of social insurance, and a system of family allowances. <!-- We add a quote here from the Beveridge report and link it to his greater focus on the value of full employment and a robust social safety net as a sign of prosperity> --> Beveridge clearly states that at the beginning of the report in a section titled 'Three Guiding Pricinples of Recommendations', saying "organisation of social insurance should be treated as one part only of a comprehensive policy of social progress. Social insurance fully developed may provide income security; it is an attack upon Want. But Want is one only of five giants on the road of reconstruction... The others are Disease, Ignorance, Squalor and Idleness."(Beveridge, W). The critical phrase here is "a comprehensive policy of social progress", which fully signalled Beveridge's focus on a governmental policy of active assistance[^8] of its citizens. An in-depth exploration of how Beveridge proposed tackling the other "giants" is beyond the scope of this examination, but put simply it was similar to his proposal for dealing with Want: government programs raising money from higher taxes and then using that money to provide services and assistance to its citizens under the thesis that no other entity could or would do so as effectively or justly as the government.

This foundation for government reforms in its dealings with the economy--specifically that of how the government, while raising money from its citizens, should take care of its citizens--was fundamentally a different focus from that of Keynes. While Beveridge, due to his position and experience as a civil servant--a man of government policy--was focused on what government could do *for* its citizens, Keynes, an economist, was focused on what government could do *to* the market to ensure its proper functioning, helping its citizens by the correct functioning of the market. Keynes, in his most famous work, *The General Theory of Employment, Interest, and Money*, wrote "If the Treasury were to fill old bottles with banknotes, bury them at suitable depths in disused coalmines which are then filled up to the surface with town rubbish, and leave it to private enterprise on well tried principles of laissez-faire to dig the notes up again ... there need be no more unemployment and, with the help of the repercussions, the real income of the community, and its capital wealth also, would probably become a good deal greater than it actually is. It would, indeed, be more sensible to build houses and the like; but if there are political and practical difficulties in the way of this, the above would be better than nothing."(Keynes, J). While this quote is often taken out of context, as a literal exhortation by Keynes that government should fund *any* make-work project, his statement at the end that building homes--things that people actually want and need, as well as being a productive use of resources--is better than nothing is the critical point. He believed that a net-positive use of resources, as allocated and directed by the govenrment, would be better than direct unemployment insurance or other forms of direct assistance. The goal here was not the direct assistance of its citizens, as Beveridge proposed, but the stimulation of aggregate demand in the economy, in effect 'spinning it up' by multiples of the original government spending. This is the basis of Keynesian economics, that the government should spend money on infrastructure, public works, and other projects to stimulate the economy out of what he deemed inevitable[^9] depressions and recessions that would occur in a free market economy. Contrary to popular belief, the New Deal was *not* a Keynesian policy, both as *The General Theory* was published in 1936, three years after the beginning of the New Deal, and as the greater model for the New Deal was direct cojoling of private industry to decrease price AND increase wages--through the National Recovery Administration--which is a direct contradiction of basic economic principles, and didn't work. After this failure, the New Deal's make-work projects--specifically the Civilian Conservation Corps and the Works Progress Administration--were more in line with Keynesian policy, but were not *of* Keynes, and were secondary to the direct relief programs of the New Deal. 

Historical misconceptions aside, one of the critical ideas of Keynesian economics is what has been dubbed the "Multiplier Effect", that any spending--though in the case of Keynesian recommendations for government spending--will have an amplified effect greater than the original spending. The basis for much of Keynesian policy is that when private sector spending drops in a recession period, the 'bucket' of the economy needs to be filled by the government to eventually allow the private sector to take over again. While in non-recession periods, the multiplier effect of private spending(a $100,000 piece of equipment produces a $200,000 profit), in recession periods the government will be the only one willing to spend, and thus its multiplier effect will rekindle that of private industry. As Investopedia puts it in their article on Keynesian economics, "The multiplier effect ... an injection of government spending eventually leads to added business activity and even more spending. This theory proposes that spending boosts aggregate output and generates more income. If workers are willing to spend their extra income, the resulting growth in gross domestic product (GDP) could be even greater than the initial stimulus amount."(Investopedia). This does not, however, mean that Keynesian economics is a "spend as much as possible" policy, as the multiplier effect is not infinite, and the government can spend too much, leading to inflation and other negative effects. Keynes recognized this, but considered the risk of inflation to be less than the risk of continued depression so urged for measures to achieve high employment(even full employment) and a stable economic base even if it meant a later period of inflation.

Despite the stated continuance of free market principles as part of the policy recommendations of both Keynes and Beveridge, the state-planning ends that would inevitably come with the full adoption of their policies is not in doubt. As Dan Hegelund, in his paper "The Keynesian/Austrian Debate", quotes Keynes in his letter to Hayek--in review of *The Road to Serfdom*--on his voyage to the Bretton Woods conference, "'The central controls necessary to ensure full employment will, of course, involve a large extension of the traditional functions of government... I should say that what we want is not no planning, or even less planning, indeed I should say we almost certainly want more. But the planning should take place in a community in which as many people as possible, both leaders and followers, wholly share your own moral position... Moderate planning will be safe if those carrying it out are rightly oriented in their own minds and hearts to the moral issue.'"(Hegelund, D). Despite his vocal agreement with Hayek's assertion that planning would lead to totalitarianism, he both endorsed planning and the extension of government control over the economy, and did so while on the way to a conference that would create the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, two agents of economic planning and control. If we assume that Keynes was not lying in his earlier endorsement, saying "'In my opinion it is a grand book. We all have the greatest reason to be grateful to you for saying so well what needs so much to be said. You will not expect me to accept quite all the economic dicta in it. But morally and philosophically I find myself in agreement with virtually the whole of it; and not only in agreement with it, but in deeply moved agreement.'"(Hegelund, D), then his genuine belief that planners of strong moral and philosophical character would actually be able to plan in a way that would not lead to totalitarianism is an indictment of his own character, as it either shows the he didn't read the book or that he didn't understand it. Hayek's most powerful chapter in *The Road to Serfdom* is "Why the Worst Get on Top", which is a systematic expasnion of the age old axiom that "power corrupts, and absolute power corrupts absolutely". This is not a character indictment of Keynes, but a recognition that the power to plan the economy is the power to plan society, and that power is not something that can be wielded without force, and thus without the potential--and eventual--corruption of the wielder in some form.

Beveridge's hidden support of state-planning is less hidden, despite his claim early in the Beveridge Report that "The state in organising security should not stifle incentive, opportunity, responsibility; in establishing a national minimum, it should leave room and encouragemnet for voluntary action by each individual to provide more than that minimum for himself and his family."(Beveridge, W). This evidence is furnished by his close connection with Beatrice and Sidney Webb, and the Fabian Society at large, and his statement[^10] that what was happening in Germany at the time, the rise of National Socialism, was an attempt to defend the last vestiges of free market capitalism -- in effect equating the free market as a fundamental part of fascist ideology. Hayek rebuts this in a 1933 memo to Beveridge, "National Socialism is a genuine socialist movement, whose leading ideas are the final fruit of the anti-liberal tendencies whic have been steadily gaining ground in Germany since the later part of the Bismarckian era... The collectivist and anti-individualistic character of German National Socialism is notm uhc modiifed by the fact that it is not a proletarian but middle cass socialism."(Hayek, F). The common rebuttal to this is that Germany had many large corporations who exercised huge influecnce over the Nazi Regime, and supported its rise and continuation, but this is the characteristic of totalitarian socialistic states--corporatism: Mussolini's Italy, and even the great Communist revolutionary Lenin initially desired 'state capitalism' as a step on the way to communism. The narrow inital goals of Beveridge's report were not designed to create a totalitarian state, but one that included more and more economic planning as time went on in a fundamentally democratic socialist manner. This is evidenced in his book, *Full Employment in a Free Society*, where he argued for state encouragement of enterprise towards the goal of full employment, "since some change of work is inevitable in a progressive society and must mean some losing of jobs, those who ar ehnadiccaped by age in finding new jobs should have some special help in doing so...A Labour Exchange backed by sympathethic public opinion might do much to get all the old men's places for the older men and leave to the younger generations the task of inding and forcing fresh openings for themselves...The perpetual favouring of younger men merely for their youth, in filling obs within the competence of older men, makes for unemployment. IT would not happen in a socialist community with employment unified. In an individualist community it is an anti-social act and should be recognized as such."(Beveridge, William). The state being encouraged to take an active role in the policing of 'anti-social' acts is an indicator of the long-term negative direction that Beveridge's policies leave a door open to. 

The critical point of alignment--despite differences of their policy recommendations for the execution of their shared belief--is that the government should be an active participant, to some degree, in the management and direction of the economy. This is a critical point of distinction between the economic philosophies of Hayek and Friedman, as well as those of the next set of thinkers, Marx and Engels. To the question of what benefit the citizens of the World Government would have from a government aligned with the economic philosophy of Keynes and Beveridge, looking to the United Kingdom and modern United States[^11] is instructive. The NHS in the United Kingdom and the Affordable Care Act in the United States are both examples of government programs designed as replacements for private services in the belief that the government--in how they fund it--can provide the service better and more justly than the private sector. If this is believed to be true, that the government can, and if so should, provide services for reasons of justice and efficiency, then a strong welfare state on a global scale could be created by the adoption of their ideas. This government would take an active role in the welfare, living conditions, and assistance thereof of its citizens--a paternal state, in a good way, if this belief is held to be true. This also requires the assunmption, as Keynes did, that by selecting planners of desireable/judged moral character, the government can implement planning and redistributive measures without a slide into totalitarianism. This question is not one that can be answered in the abstract, and is a question of political philosophy for the individual to decide. 

Two people who strongly believed that the government could do this justly, had to do so to *avoid* tyranny and oppression of the masses, were Marx and Engels. Their economic philosophy, "communism", is the most extreme form of government intervention in the economy--at its full extent, it *is* the economy. The case of "world communism" isn't one that has been tested, but commmunist theoriticans have previously claimed that communism would work more efficiently and justly when extrapolated to the greatest quantity of human and natural resources. This question, whether the implementation of communism as the political and economic philosophy of the world government would work due to the total planet's resources base, is the subject of the next section.

### III.1.a.c: Marx & Engels

<!-- Does a sufficiently large resource/population base, the "world revolution" allow for socialism to work. no, that's dumb. -->

### III.1.a.d: East and West Germany

### III.1.a.e: South and North Korea

### III.1.a.f: The United States and Finland



[^1]: While in a command economy the state is the sole owner of the means of production, everyone is a member of the state, and thus theoretically everyone has an equal share in the means of production. This is not true in practice, but it is the theory. As George Orwell wrote in Animal Farm, "All animals are equal, but some animals are more equal than others."

[^2]: While anti-monopoly efforts are frequently painted as contrary to a classically liberal view of the economy, this is not the case. The goal of anti-monopoly efforts is to remove the existence of states-within-states, monopolistic entities which regulate the market within the market, and thus are contrary to the free market. Large corporations are not inherently monopolistic, vertically-integrated corporations are not inherently monopolistic, but those that use their power to not only prevent competition but to prevent the market from functioning are. Those that act as command economies within the market are the target of anti-monopoly efforts. This is not a contradiction to the free market, but a necessary component of it.

[^3]: Hayek is firmly classified as a member of the Austrian school of economics, alongside Mises and Menger, while Friedman was a member of the Chicago school of economics. While these schools are similar in many ways, specifically in their opposition to Keynesian economics and defense of the market system as the most efficient allocator of resources, they are not identical. 

[^4]: Roger W. Garrison in his excellent comparative analysis of Hayek and Friedman, "Hayek and Friedman: Head to Head", quotes Friedman as saying in his book, *Dollars and Deficits*, "'In one sense, we are all Keynesians now; in another, nobody is a Keynesian any longer.' He went on to identify the two senses: 'We all use the Keynesian language and apparatus; none of us any longer accepts the initial Keynesian conclusions.'". This "all" **does not** include the Austrian school of economics, which used a priori("from what is before": reasoning based on logic and deduction, independent of experience) reasoning to reach economic conclusions. 

[^5]: Which as we have previously established, **does** include anti-monopoly efforts, see footnote 1.

[^6]: Their time was certainly different, but in this context, it was the mid-20th century generally.

[^7]: Including but not limited to factors such as utility, desirability, and scarcity.

[^8]: In the language of a supporter, a detractor wouldn't call it "assistance" but "interference", but the action is the same.

[^9]: Whether they are actually inevitable is a matter of comparative debate, one that Keynesians and Austrians have been having for nearly a century, but in an analysis of Keynesian economics, it is a necessary dialectic axiom.

[^10]: That I have to believe was made verbally, as I have found many references crediting him with *saying it*, but no examples of him writing it.

[^11]: Despite the continuance of high rates of entrepeneurship, and the greatest amount of technological innovation in the world, the United States has more and more been adopting policies that are in line with Keynesian ideas. The United States has not fully embraced Keynesianism, but the policies of President Obama in relation to the 2008 financial crisis, the policies of President Trump in regards to domestic manufacturing and the COVID-19 pandemic, and those of President Biden in regards to the COVID-19 pandemic, infrastructure bill, and CHIPS Act to name a few, are all in line with general Keynesian ideas. 