### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Case Study 2

## Introduction: The United Nations

The United Nations is an international organization founded in 1945 after the Second World War by 51 countries(those who had declared war on Germany and Japan, as well as Poland, which hadn't assembled a full government yet, the Byelorussian and Ukranian Soviet Socialist Republics, Denmark, and Argentina) committed to "save succeeding generations from the scourge of war ... to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights ... to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained, and to promote social progress and better standards of life in larger freedom." (United Nations n.d.). There was hope among many, from Einstein (American Museum of Natural History n.d.) to Gandhi (Schlictmann n.d.) to Truman[^1] (Dam n.d.), that the UN would be empowered to create a worldwide federal state[^2]. These hopes were dashed almost instantly by the Cold War, and the UN has since been relegated to a largely symbolic role, with the Security Council--the supposed "world police"--being unable to act in many cases due to the veto power of its permanent members(the Russian invasion of Ukraine being a recent example).

This case study will examine why the UN isn't a world government, and whether it could be the foundation of a world government in the context of this project. In it, an examination of the UN's most aggressive activism, the United Nations fighting under a single flag--the flag of the United Nations itself--in the Korean War, and its decline in power, influence, and relevance since then. The hope that underscored the fantastic jubilation of the UN's founding (The United Nations n.d.) that resulted from a collaboration between the widest array of nations to create something more powerful than themselves by their efforts--Vyacheslav Molotov, Anthony Eden, and Edward Stettinus all chaired the San Francisco Conference that created the UN--has been replaced by a cynical view of the UN as a powerless, irrelevant, and corrupt organization. The world government that I am proposing must capture those same idealistic aims that the UN was founded upon, but most also act with justice, decisiveness, and power over the populations it encompasses.

## The UN In Action: Entering, and Figting, the Korean War

This section will examine the political and military actions of the UN in the Korean War but is expressly not a military history of the Korean War. The actual fighting of the Korean War is not relevant to this case study--the UN's political and military organizational actions relating to the Korean War are. The UN combined military command was the most uncompromisingly powerful and decisive action the UN has ever taken in support of its ideals and is the closest the UN has ever come to acting as a truly unified world government. That the UN's action in intervening in the Korean War was a defense of its ideals is not hyperbole, but a fact--the first sentence of the UN's resolution (UNSCR n.d.) encouraging member states to provide military aid to South Korea is, "The Security Council, Having determined that the armed attack upon the Republic of Korea by forces from North Korea constitutes a breach of the peace." While other minor interventions have been made by the UN, the Korean War was _the_ exemplar of the UN's ideas being defended by nations across the world under the banner of the UN.

The picture of the UN's unity in the Korean War is not as rosy as it seems, however. The UN's intervention in the Korean War was only possible because the Soviet Union was boycotting the UN Security Council at the time, and thus unable to veto the resolution (Gaiduk 2006). Despite this, that the UN's most decisive action to stand up for its ideals was only possible because of the absence of one of its two most powerful members is a damning indictment of a supposed foundation for a world government. The UN's intervention in the Korean War was arguably successful, but in a limited scope--Truman was firmly against any escalation of the war that could lead to a direct nuclear confrontation with the Soviet Union, and the war ended in a stalemate that persists to this day. Thus, while the UN's intervention in the Korean War was a direct, decisive action in support of its ideals, that paints a far too auspicious picture of the UN's power, influence, and viability as the foundation for a world government. The UN's intervention in the Korean War was only possible because of the absence of one of its two most powerful members, its actions limited by the threat of nuclear war[^3], and its intervention did not set a precedent for further decisive action in support of its ideals it was the high-water mark of decisive UN action in support of freedom, liberty, and human rights.

## The Descent of the UN: The Decline of the UN's Power and Influence

Similar to the previous section, this will not be a history of the UN - instead, it will examine two specific actions/inactions of the UN that signify its decline from relevant power in international politics to a largely symbolic organization capable of only international aid. The Russian seizure of Crimea in 2014, and the Russian invasion of Ukraine itself starting on February 24, 2022. While the time jump between the Korean War and Russian actions regarding Ukraine in the 21st century is large, it is evidence of the underlying faults in the UN at large and the Security Council in particular that the same problems that made the UN's decisive action in the Korean War not-so-decisive have been exacerbated to the point that the UN is incapable of acting cohesively in the face of a direct violation of its ideals by one of its most powerful members.

While the seizure of Crimea by Russia in 2014 was briefly remarked upon and then left to fester in the background by the media and general public across the world, this is the kind of event that should have been an excellent opportunity for an organization like the UN to use its theoretical power and clout to punish Russia for its illegal invasion and seizure of a sovereign nation's territory. Instead, the UN held a meeting of the security council which stated that "'Support was expressed for the unity, territorial integrity, and sovereignty of Ukraine. The Council agreed that it was important that all political actors in Ukraine exercise maximum restraint and called for an inclusive dialogue recognizing the diversity of the Ukrainian society.'"(Biharprabha 2014). In addition, the largest UN-coordinated step in response to the Russian seizure of Ukraine was to pass a resolution calling upon states not to recognize the annexation of Crimea by Russia (United Nations Press 2014), this message is undercut by the fact that for the 100 votes in favor, 11 voted against, and 58 _abstained_. Irrespective of the UN, the United States, EU, and Japan imposed sanctions on Russia (Butchard 2022), but these were easily circumvented by Russia through third-party countries and the sanctions were largely ineffective. When summed up, the UN's response to one of its members having its territory seized by _another member_ was to pass a resolution that was largely ignored, and to call for "restraint" and "dialogue" between the two parties. This is not the response of a real power in international politics, but the response of a near-powerless organization unable to do anything to meaningfully effect a conflict between two of its members.

The follow-up to the Russian seizure of Crimea was the Russian invasion of Ukraine in 2022. While the direct cause for the invasion cannot be put at the feet of the UN's inaction in 2014, it did nothing to dissuade Putin from further action in trying to seize/puppet Ukraine. The UN's response to this was equally pathetic--the UN General Assembly(as Russia is a member of the Security Council, and would veto any motion against itself) passed a resolution demanding the Russian Federation withdraw its military forces from Ukraine (EEAS n.d.). While this was a more overwhelming passage than the resolution to support South Korea, passing with 141 votes in favor, 5 against, and 35 abstentions, it is still a symbolic gesture - all of the military aid, sanctions, and other indirect actions taken in response to the Russian invasion in support of Ukraine were taken by individual nations or other organizations, not the UN. The UN's first purpose was to be the crossroads of international politics where a world order of peace, justice, and stability could be maintained, but it has failed structurally to do so since its inception. NATO has proven a more effective organization (NATO n.d.) in supporting Ukraine, *a non-member*than the UN has been in supporting the sovereignty of its member state from a more powerful aggressor. The UN's complete and utter failure to support Ukraine in 2014, and its continued failure to do so since the start of the invasion in 2022, is a live and ongoing autopsy of the structural failings of the UN. If the UN cannot act in any physical way to support its own member states' sovereignty, it does not come close to being classified as an organization, let alone a world government - it falls far short of this designation, and without serious structural reform, it will continue to do so.

## Is it a Foundation for a World Government?

After examining the supposed "high-water mark" of the UN's strength and power in support of its founding ideals in the intervention in the Korean War, and the state of dereliction and impotence that has become apparent in the UN as highlighted by the Russian actions in Ukraine, it may seem superfluous to seriously consider the UN as a foundation for a world government. However, in recognition of its wide reach--if not its power--and the fact that it is the closest thing to a _universal_ world government that exists, it is worth examining whether the UN could be reformed into the foundation for a world government to be built upon.

While the answer, depending on political persuasion, maybe resounding in the positive or negative, there is considerable nuance to this question. Most notably, in how we define "foundation"--what "world government" is defined as was done in the "Terms and Procedures" section of this work--as there are two main ways to do so in this context. First, would be a literal foundation--the UN as an organization would be continued and expanded upon to become the world government this exploration is seeking to create. Second, would be a figurative, ideological foundation--the UN's ideals, goals, and aims would be included, built upon, or otherwise incorporated into the world government this exploration is seeking to create. For this exploration, the UN will be examined as an ideological foundation for a world government due to the undue effort it would take to structurally deconstruct the UN, and because of the general cynicism and distrust of the UN that has been built up over the past 70 years.

In terms of a fundamental ideology, the UN is extremely optimistic and idealistic--but not nearly as complete or specific as an institution like the European Union(European Commission n.d.), which within its preamble immediately states, "it is necessary to strengthen the protection of fundamental rights in the light of changes in society, social progress and scientific and technological developments by making those rights more visible in a Charter.". In direct contrast, the most specific that the UN charter gets in its preamble is, "to establish conditions under which justice and respect for the obligations arising from treaties and other sources of international law can be maintained"(United Nations n.d.). This is not to attack the UN Charter as a poorly written document, but simply to state that in modeling a world government on the UN, a wide-ranging technical addition to the UN's fundamental ideals would have to be made. This decreases the value of building upon the UN's ideals as a foundation for a world government, if only because the UN's fundamentally idealistic foundation brought them to a state of near-irrelevance in international politics and widespread denigration by the general public.

Finally, and most importantly, if the world government that this paper is proposing is to truly thrive, it has to have its ideals and values related to its creation--not those taken from an organization founded in an era of both great optimism for humanity and fierce competition between the two most powerful nations on Earth. The UN's ideals, while noble, idealist, and optimistic, should be referenced for the core goals of the world government, but not as the foundation for it. The United States, the wealthiest, most powerful, and most influential nation on Earth, was founded on the ideals of "life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness" (National Archives n.d.), but then codified those ideals into an amendable constitution--the world government of this paper is not a tacked-on fourth-layer of government, but a fundamental reorganization of the world and its functioning. The UN's ideals, in their lack of specificity and codification, are too interlinked with its structural failings to act as the foundation of a world government. The world government of this paper must be founded on its ideals, and act with vigor and decisiveness within its borders as a defender of virtues it chose for itself, not those chosen by an organization that has failed to live up to them.

[^1]: While not explicit endorsement of the relief of American sovereignty in favor of a world government, Truman's statement that "When Kansas and Colorado have a quarrel over the water in the Arkansas River, they don't call out the National Guard in each state and go to war over it. They bring a suit in the Supreme Court of the United States and abide by the decision" is a clear endorsement of a far more powerful international court and justice system than the UN had at its peak, nevermind today's shambles.
[^2]: Einstein, Gandhi, and Truman all had very different ideas as to what this world government would look like, and Truman wasn't fully endorsing the idea, but all three agreed that the UN was too weak to be effective but that _some_ form of strong international arbiter or federal world government was necessary.
[^3]: There are two main mitigating factors for this critique--the first is that it was likely a wise strategic decision to not risk escalation to nuclear war, especially given the fact that the Soviet Union was commanded by the aging and ever-more erratic Stalin. The second was to minimize the chances of a Chinese intervention in the war on behalf of North Korea(and perhaps an invasion of Taiwan, though whether they could have done so is debatable). The Chinese intervened _anyway_, but this was not an inevitability, and had it escalated further, the Chinese intervention likely would have been earlier.
