### Andrew Garber
### November 27 2023
### Independent Study 
### Case Study 1 

(As part of the EU Section, why is part of what has been tried and what has failed)

#### II.1.a: Why is Switzerland in the Schengen Area but not the EU itself?
The European Union is the greatest attempt at creating at supranational state that has yet been tried, and it has brought a great deal of prosperity to the continent. However, it did not create a singular state but stopped short of that, and is instead a collection of states that simply work together on a number of issues. Switzerland, long known for its neutrality, non-interventionism, and strongly independent culture, is a lone gap in the map of European Union members in Central and Western Europe. A seemingly inconsistent outlier to their otherwise independent streak, Switzerland is a member of the highly integrated Schengen Area, which allows for free movement of people and goods across borders. In this case study, an examination of the reasons for Switzerland not joining the EU will be made, as well as the reasons for joining the Schengen Area. This examination will be made through the lens of states and their people prioritizing independence and national sovereignty as major aims unto themselves.

#### II.1.a.i: Why Switzerland declined to join the EU

Switzerland has a long history of independence and near obsessive neutrality in European and world affairs. It has served as the crossroads of Europe for centuries, and has been a place of refuge for those fleeing persecution, war, or strife. In fact, Swiss neutrality has become an integral part of Swiss National Identity, and they have not participated in a foreign war since 1815. This cycle of longer periods of neutrality and isolationism forging a stronger sense of national identity and independence has forged Swiss culture and politics into one deeply skeptical of foreign entanglements. This manifested itself in the 1992 decision(50.3% to 49.7%) to not join the wider European Economic Area(EEA), and the 2001 decision(76.8% to 23.2%) to not join the EU. The reasons for this are varied, but can be mainly be credited to four main reasons: Swiss national identity, lack of security concerns, too wealthy to gain dramatic benefits, and the Swiss system of direct democracy.

##### Swiss National Identity and Isolationism

As previously mentioned, the cycle of long periods of isolationism forging a stronger sense of Swiss identity as distinctly separate and inhernetly neutral thus making them more isolationist has become a dominant force. While it is impossible to pinpoint the absolute causes of this, both its geography and internal divisions have played a role. In terms of geography, Switzerland is incredibly difficult to invade due to the mountainous terrain and the fact that these "chokepoints" are easily defensible. Adding to this, there are few natural resources in Switzerland and thus little reason to embark on such an obviously expsnive and difficult invasion. Regarding internal divisions, Switzerland is a country of four official languages and contains populations who were culturally tied to the German, French, and Italian states. Many of the twenty-six cantons have populations that could have been sympathetic to the states that surrounded them, and thus an active policy of neutrality was necessary to prevent internal divisions from spilling over into the international arena. Generations were needed in order to build a sufficiently cohesive Swiss culture, and by the time that culture was enshrined it contained neutrality as a key element. This policy of neutrality was formalized in 1815 at the Congress of Vienna, and has been a cornerstone of Swiss foreign policy ever since. 

This policy of individuation and neutrality in foreign policy is in stark relief when compared to the EU's Common Foreign and Security Policy(CFSP), which is a key part of the EU's supranational identity. The CFSP is a policy that is designed to create a common foreign policy for the EU, so that the EU can be seen as a more coherent actor on the world stage in comparison to a trade-bloc with a common market. While the strength of the CFSP has come into question(the war in Ukraine showed the EU's inability to form a single foreign policy for all of its states), the very concept of a common foreign policy is anathema to Switzerland and was a key decision in the continued rejection of EU membership.