### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Citizen Participation

#### From Outline

```
- IV.3: Structures for Citizen Participation/Government Structure.
- IV.3.a: How would the Global Nation be structured to allow for citizen participation in government? Would it be a direct democracy, a representative democracy, or something else entirely?

 - IV.3.a.i: Tie back to Switzerland, and their implementation of direct democracy.
 - IV.3.a.ii: The United States as a general example of a representative democracy
 - IV.3.a.iii: "Architecture of a Technodemocracy" by Jason M. Hanania, and how certain elements of techodemocracy would be a good fit for the Global Nation.
 - IV.3.a.iv: The structure of citizen participation in the Global Nation as a triad of direct democracy, representative democracy, and technodemocracy(not technocracy) into a cohesive form, and how it interacts with a system of objectively scalable government.

```

#### Response

Throughout history, the citizenry of a state has held varying degrees of influence over the actions, policies, and decisions of their state(in so much as it was 'their' state at all). As a pre-condition of this examination, the Global Nation must be structured in such a way that it could be correctly considered a "Democracy", and the previous sections have laid out the groundwork for this both morally, as it relates to the Liberal foundation of the Global Nation, and systemically, as the organizational structure of the Global Nation includes a system of government that takes in the direct will of the people. This still leaves a wide range of possibilities for what such a system of citizen participation could look like, and as no "optimal" systems exists, a series of trade-offs must be made to create a system that fits the unique constraints and goals of the Global Nation. A wide range of systems are available for consideration, but in seeking the fine principles to combine into a cohesive whole, brief examinations of the direct democracy of Switzerland(previously mentioned in [II.1.a.]), the representative democracy of the United States, and the technodemocracy of Jason M. Hanania's _Architecture of a Technodemocracy_ will be made, and useful principles co-opted, combined, and re-imagined for the Global Nation.

Switzerland, as mentioned in [II.1.a.]: "Why is Switzerland in the Schengen Area but not the EU itself?", is a direct democracy--a unique fixture in the world of modern states--with two primary mechanisms for direct citizen participation: the referendum and the initiative. The referendum is a vote on a law that has been passed by the Swiss parliament, and the initiative is a vote on a law that has been proposed by the Swiss people. Both of these allow the will of the people[^1], in separate ways, to hold large sway in the rules of the state that holds legitimacy as a result of their grace. What makes these mechanisms astounding, and useful for the Global Nation, is that these same mechanisms have been in place since the middle of the 19th century, when infrastructure for intellectual, political, and cultural connectivity was far more primitive than it is in even the least developed regions today. That Switzerland has prospered under this system and did so even before the advent of modern communication technology, is a direct contradiction to the popular conception of any form of direct democracy as too cumbersome or feeble to be effective. More than this, the Swiss system of direct democracy also includes a legislative branch of elected representatives, who also hold the power to draft laws and pass them to the consideration of the people. Despite this, the Swiss system of professional political representation is unmistakably different from that of the United States or France, "The National Council and the Council of States meet separately for three-week sessions four times a year. The two chambers debate all constitutional amendments before putting them to the popular vote. They also adopt, amend or repeal federal legislation(About Switzerland)", but this frequency is less symptomatic of the Swiss system as a whole and more wholly representative of Swiss political culture. This form of hybrid direct and representative democracy(referred to henceforth as simply "hybrid democracy") is an invaluable model for the Global Nation, as it allows for the direct consultation of the people, their direct input and suggestions into the laws that govern them, a veto over laws which may prioritize the interests of the government over its people, and a system of elected representatives who can use their experience and character to act as the people's delegate in the day-to-day functioning of the state.

The United States, partly as a function of its federalism but also as an intentional choice of its framers, is a representative democracy with several intermediaries between the direct will of the people and the decisions that affect them. In many ways, this is a useful function of a highly compartmentalized representative model, as different branches and levels of government can be structured as checks on each other to avoid the concentration of power in any one place, and to incentive cooperation between different groups of people to achieve political aims of mutual interest. While not referring to the United States specifically, Alonso, Keane, and Merkel bring this point to the fore, "Representative government was also hailed as an effective new method of apportioning blame for poor political performance; a new way of encouraging the rotation of leadership, guided by merit. Right from the beginning, some critics thought of it as a form of elected aristocracy, but that rather understated another claimed advantage of representative democracy: that it cleared space for political minorities and competition for power that in turn enabled elected representatives to test out their political competence in the presence of others (Alonso, Keane, and Merkel 2011)." These are significant virtues of the representative model, and these become even more important when considering the huge area and population of the Global Nation. The system is not without its flaws--both in the United States, and as a general model--as the actions of the representatives are necessarily disconnected from those who empowered them, and the constituents of a representative are not entirely homogenous in opinion. While the models of Switzerland and the United States both include representative elements, in this view the United States' model falls prey to the criticisms of representative democracy more strongly, "It frustrates collective action by splintering the _demos_ [populace] and by disconnecting the exercise of power from its rightful source; an active _demos_ [populace] is replaced by political professionals who protect powerful particular interests. Representation makes a mockery of the power-principle of democracy, majority rule: ‘majorities are artifacts manufactured by money, organization and the media’ (Alonso, Keane, and Merkel 2011)." This underscores, albeit slightly exaggerates, the importance of direct mechanisms of citizen participation in the Global Nation, especially considering the total political scale of the Global Nation.

Technodemocracy, as described by Jason M. Hanania in _Architecture of a Technodemocracy_[^2], is a system of government that uses technology to allow for the direct participation of the citizenry in the day-to-day functioning of the state, keeps the state accountable, and allows for the state to be more directly responsible for acting contrary to the interests of the voters. The foundational tenets of it are rapid peer-to-peer communication, electronic(internet/blockchain) voting on day-to-day and long-term issues, and the power of the people to recall their representatives at any time. As Hanania describes it, "each group member would have communication power, option power, decision power, and accountability power, equal to that of any other group member, including representatives. The representatives would simply carry out the decisions of the group (Hanania 2018)." This is a powerful model for the Global Nation, as it allows for the day-to-day management to be off-loaded to representatives as long as they act righteously in service of their constituents, with an immediate and continual check on their power. The structure of Hanania's technodemocratic model is far more extensive than this, but functionally the keys are explained in this example.

The Global Nation's system of citizen participation would combine the fundamental principles of a hybrid direct and representative democracy, the checks and balances of a specifically compartmentalized representative democracy, and modern improvements on democracy itself through the use of technology in the form of a technodemocracy. This system would include the relevant useful mechanisms from each of these and counterbalance their flaws through thoughtful combination and re-imagining, and would functionally allow for the direct will of the people to be enacted in the day-to-day functioning of the state, their representatives' interests being held in direct correlation to their constituents, and the public trust maintained and expanded as a function of the state's total and immediate accountability to the people. While the daily operations of this system at the Town/City, State/Province, and Federal levels would be different in the scale of the decisions and policies implemented, the structure would be nearly identical. Before looking at that, the structure of the executive must be addressed, as the executive is as much a representative of the people as the legislative. While direct recall of the executive is an attractive notion in theory--an identical system to that of the legislative branch wherein if the executive is not acting in the direct interests of the citizenry they can be removed after a petition of a certain percentage of the citizenry--the Global Nation's executive, and those of the lower levels structured in the same way, need the stability of a fixed term to avoid the chaos of something akin to the "Year of the Four Emperors" in Rome. While a direct recall measure might work well at the Town/City level, or possibly even the State/Province level, at the Federal level it is functionally untenable as the executive, elected for their experience and character, must be allowed to govern under the mandate of that election. Checks and balances still do exist, as the agenda of any executive must be doubly approved by the citizenry and the legislature as a function of the unique dual legislative process of the Global Nation, and the judiciary holds a similar check on the executive as it does in the United States. The executive must be allowed to exercise their power, perhaps even in the face of public opposition, as long as they are within the bounds of the law of the Global Nation, and subject to censure by the citizenry and the legislature as a matter of course. return to the legislative branch, the unique dual legislative process of the Global Nation is worthy of a more thorough inspection to flesh out the mechanisms and reasoning behind it. The total elimination of an elected representative's power to draft and pass laws--as well as the other functions of the elected legislature: impeachment, approving judicial nominations, and more--would be a significant loss, for the experience and character of the elected representatives is a valuable asset to the state, and to their constituents. To avoid either the people's direct legislative authority being merely a rubber-stamp on the decisions of the elected legislature, or the reverse happening, the Global Nation's system of dual legislature makes these bodies equal in legislative power. Both the citizenry and the elected representatives must approve any law by majority vote--no fillibuster, no super-majorities save for veto override--with a proportion of the citizenry of any level(perhaps 10%) having to sign a petition to put it on the ballot. This system allows for the direct input of the citizenry into the laws that govern them while ensuring that a minimum of nuisance bills get on the ballot. The executive, as mentioned, has veto power over any law, but this veto can be over-ridden by a 60% vote of the legislature--if a representative does not vote to override the veto against the will of their constituents, they can be recalled--adding a specific check on the executive's power to the legislature's toolbox. This legislative process applies equally to the Town/City, State/Province, and Federal levels, with the only variable being the number and form of the legislative bodies at each level. A final point of uniqueness in the direct voting process of the Global Nation is the inclusion of an "explainer section" on the ballot, where the citizenry can read a summary of the law, its implications, and the arguments for and against it, these will be drafted by the legislature ahead of the vote, and if the citizenry finds them to be biased or incomplete as a function of partisanship or incompetence, those representatives involved can be recalled. The clear counterargument to the idea that a key function of the representative form of government is to willingly delegate the day-to-day functioning of the state to those with greater understanding and experience and that it would take too much time and effort for the citizenry to be informed on every issue. These would be valid concerns in an era of limited communication and education, but in the information age where anyone can inform themselves on the particulars of any issue to a moderate degree of depth, these concerns are less valid. In addition, if the citizenry is so poorly reared in the ways of governance and issues that affect their lives, the state may not be sufficiently open and transparent--see [III.5]--in what issues face that level of government, what the implications of those issues are, and what actions have been taken in remedy. In addition, the issues of the tyranny of the majority aren't valid in the face of the alternative and are significantly minimized in a system where the role of government in the economy and the lives of the citizenry is so much more limited in comparison to almost any other pre-unification state. In consideration of the technological marvels of the modern age, the Global Nation's system of citizen participation is not only possible but a moral imperative in the face of the rule of the few over the many, no matter how democratic the election that put them there.

#### Footnotes

[^1]: When talking about the will of the public in this context, it refers to the many individual thoughts, opinions, and desires of the citizenry, and not a "general will" as described by Rousseau. A "general will" allows for conceptions of "the greater good" or "the common interest" to be used as a justification for the imposition of the will of the state on the individual, coercion, and this is expressly against what the Global Nation stands for, and what "the will of the people" is meant to represent in this context.
[^2]: Hanania's book includes valuable insights into the implementation of technodemocratic principles into governance but also includes some ideas that are entirely contrary to the principles of the Global Nation, most notably including the nationalization of the tech industry. His useful ideas are not less useful as a result of this, but this examination does not endorse--or utilize the ideas of--his book in its entirety.
[^3]: The Global Nation hopes that the citizenry will be politically active, but inevitably some portion--though hopefully a small portion--will tune out politics entirely. This appears a natural consequence of the human condition, but as a function of the smaller scope of government in the Global Nation, those who are politically inactive will be less affected by the decisions of the politically active portion, as government fundamentally does less.

#### Sources

1. Hanania, Jason M. 2018. "Architecture of a Technodemocracy." ISBN: 978-1-7321197-0-3.

2. Killian, H. Johnny. 1994. "The Constitution of the United States of America." U.S. Government Publishing Office. Accessed June 21, 2024. [https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-CONAN-1994/pdf/GPO-CONAN-1994.pdf](https://www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/GPO-CONAN-1994/pdf/GPO-CONAN-1994.pdf)

3. "The Federal Assembly (Parliament)." 2023. About Switzerland. Accessed June 21, 2024. [https://www.eda.admin.ch/aboutswitzerland/en/home/politik-geschichte/politisches-system/bundesversammlung.html](https://www.eda.admin.ch/aboutswitzerland/en/home/politik-geschichte/politisches-system/bundesversammlung.html)

4. Alonso, Sonia, John Keane, and Wolfgang Merkel. 2011. "Editors’ introduction: Rethinking the future of representative democracy." Cambridge University Press. Accessed June 21, 2024. [https://assets.cambridge.org/97805211/77030/excerpt/9780521177030_excerpt.pdf](https://assets.cambridge.org/97805211/77030/excerpt/9780521177030_excerpt.pdf)

5. Wasson, Donald L. 2021. "The Year of the Four Emperors & the Demise of Four Roman Legions." World History Encyclopedia. Accessed June 21, 2024. [https://www.worldhistory.org/article/1724/the-year-of-the-four-emperors--the-demise-of-four/](https://www.worldhistory.org/article/1724/the-year-of-the-four-emperors--the-demise-of-four/)
