### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Conclusion: Why Give Up Sovereignty to Join the Global Nation?

#### From Outline:

```markdown
- VI.1: Why Give Up Sovereignty?
  - VI.1.a: Summary of Economic, Political&Systemic, and Cultural&Social benefits of a Global Nation.
    - VI.1.a.i: Back to Switzerland, they joined the Schengen Area, but not the EU. Why should they give up their sovereignty to the Global Nation? Use them as the example of a nation that despite great wealth would benefit from the Global Nation.
    - VI.1.a.ii: Back to Second Marhshall Plan, and the effective short-term bribe to the poorer regions of the world to speed up development to ensure long-term stability of the Global Nation.
    - VI.1.a.iii: Back to the United States, an example of a nation that would benefit from the Global Nation despite already being the most powerful, wealthiest, and most influential nation in the world.
  - VI.1.b: Summary of the benefits of the Global Nation, and how it would be a net benefit for all of humanity.
```

#### Response:

With the justification for, structures of, and mechanisms by which the Global Nation would function in place, the question remains: why should a nation give up its sovereignty to join the Global Nation[^1]? The pull of the individual towards a collective with whom they hold at least a nominal fellowship with is a powerful one, and even with the promise of a better future under a unified world, fellowship with all, the question remains: why should a nation, and its people, give up their sovereignty to join the Global Nation? The economic, political, and cultural facets of the Global Nation offer unique benefits to nations of all kinds, positions, and sizes, but the combination of benefits that make it worth it for any particular nation are unique to that nation. For that purpose, three case studies--representing nations with uniquely strong potential gains from joining the Global Nation--will be presented: Switzerland, the United States, and those nations that would be the recipients of a Second Marshall Plan. While precondition #5 of this examination is that the people of the world desire the unification, that is not what is being addressed here: this is a specification of the benefits that would be most pronounced for nations of specific "archetypes" that would, of all the Global Nation's benefits, be the most valuable to them.

Beginning with Switzerland, a nation that is wealthy, secure, and stable, the question of why they should give up ownership of that among a fairly small population to join the Global Nation is a valid one. The answer, simply, is that the weight of numbers of being in fellowship with all of humanity will produce more wealth and individual opportunity than the current system of being a wealthy, secure, and stable nation of a small population, as well as an existing cultural acceptance of the functions of direct democracy. More than this, it is a direct extension of the benefits it gained from joining the Schengen Area, and at a more mediocre cost and with stronger additional benefits compared to joining the European Union in full. While Switzerland has become enormously wealthly largely through its position as the world's banker, sitting as the neutral mixing point for the wealth of nations, companies, and individuals for centuries, by being part of the Global Nation they could retain this, have access to an even greater serviceable population--the region would lend itself into a heavy specialization in banking and financial services--and build on this strong foundation to even stronger economic growth. 5.4% of Swiss employment is in the financial sector, but making up 9.3% of GDP("The Financial Sector: A Stable Mainstay of the Swiss Economy" 2023), and while dispropriate economic output from a single sector is not necessarily a bad thing, the Global Nation would offer the opportunity to turn it into a direct advantage for the nation as a whole, as wealth from the financial sector would radiate into other sectors of the economy. As a function of the Global Nation's taxation structure, as well as total freedom of movement, entrepreneurship will increase sharply: Switzerland could hold a unique position as the region to go to for innovation in financial services, and as the _funders_ of innovation more broadly. The Global Nation would offer Switzerland the opportunity to leverage its existing wealth, largely radiating from the financial sector[^2], into a broader economic base, and to become the financial foundation of innovation in the Global Nation.

Switzerland's choice to join the Schengen area but not the European Union reflects a desire for the benefits of free-trade and greater export opportunities, with "Chemical and pharmaceutical products make up more than 44 percent of the country’s total exports; machinery and electronics over 14 percent (Schneider 2019)," while avoiding the foreign entanglements of truly becoming part of the European Union. This concern, when applied to the Global Nation, is somewhat mitigated by the structural differences between the Global Nation and the European Union, with the latter offering another level of governmental overhead without the same level of direction, unity, and benefit that the Global Nation would offer. The European Union is a political entity offering another level of governmental abstraction, while the Global Nation offers a more logical reorganization of world political structures and simply swaps out the nation-state for the Global Nation, while decreasing the power of the state and increasing the power of the individual. The free movement of people in the Schengen area, both for tourism and for work, has been a boon to Switzerland, and the Global Nation would offer the same, but on a global scale. Specialized labor would be able to move freely to where it is needed, increasing the efficiency of the global economy generally, including the Swiss economy, and with positive exponential effects on the financial sector due to general economic growth. With Switzerland's status as a financial leader, as well as an R&D powerhouse--ranked 1st in the Global Innovation Index 2023("Global Innovation Index 2023" 2023)[^3]--the Global Nation would offer the opportunity to leverage these strengths into a stronger, more diversified economy, and to have the financial and innovative capital of the world flow through Switzerland, rather than just to it.

In a general sense, Switzerland without the Global Nation is a wealthy, secure, and stable nation doing extraordinarily well. With the Global Nation, Switzerland could expand upon this, becoming more than just an enclave of neutrality and wealth, but a global hub of innovation and finance, and a leader in democratic governance. The Swiss people have centuries of experience with direct democracy, and a local bid for location of the Global Nation's capital would be a strong one, as the history of global neutrality, stability, and experience with direct democracy would make it a popular choice. The Global Nation would offer Switzerland the opportunity to go from wealth and stability relative to current global conditions, to dramatically wealthier along with the rest of the world, more influential, and a true global leader, outsized to its population and size.

The United States has been the world's largest economy since 1890("The United States Becomes a World Power" n.d.), and is unquestionably the most powerful military and diplomatic entity in the world. The United States doesn't _need_ the Global Nation to survive or even to thrive, similar to Switzerland, but it would significantly benefit--perhaps more than Switzerland--from joining the Global Nation. Functionally, as the world's largest economy, the free movement of people and goods would be a boon of unimaginable scale to the United States, as the world's largest consumer market and world leader in total innovation[^4] would be able to leverage its existing strengths into a stronger, more directly innovation-focused economy, leading to continued prosperity. Already as a pre-unification state, a large percentage of the United States' high-skilled power comes from immigration, something which would be advanced by total freedom of movement, "Immigrants support the U.S. economy in many ways, accounting for 22.6 percent of entrepreneurs, 23.1 percent of STEM workers, and 15.6 percent of nurses ("Immigrants in the United States" n.d.)." The United States would be able to leverage its existing strengths culturally in innovation and entrepreneurship, as well as its existing economic power in finance, as well as a huge consumer market, into a stronger, more innovative economy. More generally, the ability of people to move to places of maximum opportunity would increase the efficiency of the global economy, and with so many high-skilled jobs in America, the region of the United States would be a major net beneficiary of this. Additionally, the "soft power" of the region of the United States would be notably advanced by joining the Global Nation. "Americanization"[^5] is a global phenomenon that has been ongoing since the end of World War II, with American brands, television, movies, and music--as well as American culture more broadly--being dominant across the World. The power of American culture is so strong that Stalin was said to have remarked, "If I could control the medium of the American motion picture, I would need nothing else to convert the entire world to communism (Rosendorf 2007)," and this power has only increased in the time since Stalin. Not only would an even more global market--and a more educated, wealthy global market--be a boon to those producing and selling artifacts of American culture, but American culture within the Global Nation would spread even more widely, good for the United States' internal political power in the Global Nation, as well as business more broadly.

While not the main reason to join the Global Nation, a notable benefit to joining the Global Nation for the United States is that, as a function of global unification, does not have to be the world's policeman or arsenal of democracy. While an expansive discussion of this point goes too deeply into military and military economic matters, which are outside the scope of this inquiry(I.1.D.6), in a brief sense any conflict in a Global Nation would be considered a civil war which would provoke a total, unified response from the Global Nation, rather than the United States being called upon to fund, arm, or fight in conflicts around the world. This is not a review of the justness of these involvements, arming Ukraine in its fight against Russia or the war in Afghanistan, but instead the recognition that the region of the United States in the Global Nation would only be called upon in the event of a civil war in equal measure to all other regions, rather than being the first responder to global conflicts. The economic benefits of this are outside the scope of this inquiry, in so much as it relates to how much military spending the Global Nation would require--something that is not truly predictable, being a function of the formation and internal political situation of the Global Nation--but the political and systemic benefits are clear: the region of the United States would be able to fully focus on its own internal development, economically, politically, and culturally, rather than having to hold some energy in reserve for global conflicts.

Of all three case studies, the most nations who will feel the greatest benefit in joining the Global Nation are those who will receive the first-order effects[^6] of the Second Marshall Plan, a one-time wealth transfer to the poorest regions of the world to fund projects that will improve the developmental status of those regions. The Second Marshall Plan would be a direct bribe to the poorest regions of the world to speed up their development, both to improve the lots of hundreds of millions of the worst-off people in the world, and to ensure the long-term political stability of the Global Nation by ensuring at least a baseline of prosperity. The Second Marshall Plan is the accelerant to the development and prosperity that would have come comparatively slowly from the strong institutions and economic growth of the Global Nation as a whole, and would inspire a boom in economic growth, standard of living, and political participation unseen in these regions of the world to date. Going nation by nation for this is both unecessary and contrary to the design of the Second Marshall Plan which intentionally funds projects and programs on a case-by-case basis _across_ the ex-nations which it includes, instead of on a per-capita or per-ex-nation basis to ensure that a high "yield" of development per dollar[^7] is achieved. Functionally, in establishing a strong foundation of political and economic participation across the entirety of the Global Nation, even if, inevitably(and justly), some regions will be more developed than others, the Second Marshall Plan would guard against the political instability that comes from large disparities in wealth and development within a single polity, while beginning the flywheel of development that will improve the lives of millions directly, and billions indirectly.

Sovereignty is a powerful concept, intrinsically tied to national identity and a feeling of union with one's fellow citizens. The greatest change that the Global Nation will forment, largely unintentionally[^8], is the relation to one's fellows as not only those of the same geographic region, ethnicity, language, religion, or values, but as those of the same species, sharing a fundamental likeness to one another more important than that of arbitrary divisions. The Global Nation offers unique benefits to nations of all kinds, positions, and sizes, but the benefits will be not be reaped primarily by those leaders who make the decision to join the Global Nation, but by the individuals granted liberty, opportunity, and fellowship by the Global Nation never before seen in human history. Economic opportunity lies at the heart of the Global Nation as human excellence given form, but the opportunities for citizenship in a nation of all humnaity whose decisions are made by those citizens from the day-to-day to the grandest scale, is the true benefit of the Global Nation. The Global Nation, as outlined in this examination, seeks to be the just manifestation of the human spirit as applied to the political, economic, and social spheres of life in order to maximize the potential of all individuals, and to ensure that the future of humanity is one of individual liberty, opportunity, and fellowship.

#### Footnotes:

- [^1]: Not in the sense of an "alternative history" scenario, but rather a culmination of the current global political and economic trends affecting nations of specific general types, as outlined in the previous sections, and what the Global Nation would offer them that they uniquely need.
- [^2]: Not the biggest sector today, but the one that has historically been central to the Swiss economy, and the sector that has proven most resilient to economic shocks, geopolitical instability, and other externalities throughout the nation's history.
- [^3]: The Global Innovation Index is somewhat misleading in that it overweights the environemntal factors and less on the actual results of innovation, i.e. marketable products and services, but it does say something about Switzerland's ability to fund and support innovation - even if the nation itself doesn't have an explosion of tech startups.
- [^4]: As it relates to footnote #3, the United States is not at the top of the Global Innovation Index due to marginally lower environmental factors, but it is--by a subjective judgement, and by R&D Spending (Dyvik 2024)--the world leader in actual innovation, and the world's largest consumer market.
- [^5]: In the sense of soft-power and cultural influence, not the term for immigrants becoming American citizens/being melded to "American" culture.
- [^6]: The second and third order effects are obviously dramatic, but difficult to quantify. The ripple effects of huge populations rapidly improving their economic conditions is clearly a dramatic benefit to the peoples of those regions, but the indirect benefits to other regions through increased economic activity, innovation, and cultural exchange are difficult to quantify, but clearly positive.
- [^7]: Dollar is used because the section on the Second Marshall plan used dollars as the standardized figure, and this examination does not include a specific currency, but a Global Nation would have a standardized currency and/or a Hayekian de-nationalized currency, so the use of dollars for simplification is not innapopriate.
- [^8]: Though not entirely, as the Global Nation as a political entity has an interest in the stability of itself, thus, breaking down nationalist sentiments in favor of Humanist ones is an indirect goal of the Global Nation.
