### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Anti-corruption

```
- III.5: Many of the former nations now part of the Global Nation have suffered from endemic corruption - what would be the Global Nation's anti-corruption policy & strategy?
  - III.5.a: Brief discussion of the causes of corruption, and their lasting effects on the economy and society.
  - III.5.b: Entwine Singapore, and how they were able to eliminate corruption(though it was done through semi-autocratic means).
  - III.5.c: Entwine the United States, and how they have been able to maintain minimal corruption(though lobbying is a major issue).
```

Corruption is the foundational cause of untold suffering and misery in the world. Its nature is insidious, and its effects are far-reaching - it eats away at the fabric of our society, creating a culture of distrust, apathy, and a lack of accountability in daily life. Nations that are successful in combating corruption are almost always more prosperous, more stable, and more equitable as a function of having done so, and it makes it easier to fight corruption in the future. The opposite is also true - corrupt nations are almost always less prosperous, less stable, and less equitable as a function of being corrupt, and their current corruption makes it easier to be corrupt in the future. To begin with, corruption has been defined in this examination as, "the abuse of entrusted power for private gain", the definition used by Transparency International. While there are valid critiques of this definition as being too broad when taken in the scope of the wide disparity in levels of corruption across the world, and the aggressive nature of the needed anti-corruption measures, broader is unfortunately necessary.

The causes of corruption, much like the economic decisions of any individual or group, are too varied to be accurately calculated, but some major causes are known. The first is a voluntary motivation to look for a competitive advantage, special treatment, or "service" from a government official. Another is to counter the real or perceived threat of an economic or personal competitor doing the same or to counter the real or perceived threat of a government official abusing their power. This is especially problematic because it creates a culture of preventative bribery, and thus those being bribed can use their power to solicit more widely. A third cause of corruption is a lack of a strong, active judiciary--or an actively complicit one--to police and root out corruption. If the part of the government that is supposed to be the most independent and act as a monitor of the other branches is itself corrupt, or severely diminished in scope(perhaps due to lack of funding for it _by_ the corrupt), then the other branches of government are free to act with impunity. The fourth cause of corruption is geographic dispersion: if people, and the government officials they are bribing, are spread out over a wide area, it is much harder to police and root out corruption. While very high population density can cause a similar problem, when only a few people are the governmental officials in a huge area, the number of people to be bribed to get one's desired end is fixed and easier to execute upon. This is a chicken and egg problem for developing nations, as the corruption makes it harder to grow enough of a tax base to build the infrastructure to police and root out corruption, which would then allow for a larger tax base to be built. The fifth, and final to be examined here, cause is a lack of transparency in government and the associated culture of apathy towards politics in society that results: if the people do not care about what their government is doing, then the government can do whatever it wants. This is the factor which the Global Nation, if done poorly, is most susceptible to relative to the world's current disparate nations. One silver lining in a large number of disparate states is that a more transparent state can generally outcompete a less transparent one, as the people in the more transparent state can see what their government is doing and hold it accountable which makes the state more stable and prosperous. This is why, among other reasons, the Global Nation must have a strong, active, and holistic anti-corruption policy. Now, a brief examination of how the Global Nation's anti-corruption policy will work for each of the causes of corruption.

To fight the voluntary motivation for corruption, the first step has to be the elimination of the need for corruption. Government employees should make a similar amount to their private sector counterparts for a similar role at a similar level[^1] such that government officials don't have to take bribes to put food on the table--something not uncommon in the developing world. Argentina, which is currently seeking to reform itself but has decades of corruption to overcome, is a good example of this, especially its police force, "Interacting with Argentina's police carry a high risk of corruption. The police force is among the most corrupt institutions in the country and its actions are cited as arbitrary and politicized ... Businesses report that the police cannot be consistently relied upon to enforce law and order (Gan Integrity)." While police officers may seem a unique case, more likely to be corrupted by their on-the-street interactions with the public, it is due to this that they are a good example of the need for a strong, active, and holistic anti-corruption policy. Police officers are the most visible instrument of government, and if the public sees them as non-receptive to bribes and actively working to root out corruption, then public trust as a whole will increase. This same principle applies to all government employees, and the Global Nation must be vigilant in ensuring that all government employees are held to the highest standard of conduct. Singapore, which went from a corrupt, poor, post-colonial nation to an economic juggernaut based on being an oasis for business in East Asia due to its strict anti-corruption policy[^2], has an official government Code of Conduct, "which sets out the high standards of behaviour expected of public officers based on principles of integrity, incorruptibility, and transparency (Corrupt Practices Investigation Bureau)." This is a tool that the Global Nation should adopt, a clear, concise, and easily understood handbook for the right and just actions of servants of the public trust. By making the need for corruption lessened, the boundaries of what constitutes corruption clearer, and the consequences of corruption more severe, the Global Nation can fight the voluntary motivation for corruption.

The strategies and techniques, as well as the effects of the fight against the voluntary motivation for corruption, does much to counter the preventative motivation for corruption, but a few specific strategies are needed. First among these is an anti-corruption office or agency, which is independent of the other branches of government, where people can report corruption without fear of retribution. This can only work if _what_ corruption is, and the penalties for it are clearly defined and widely understood--which comes back to the Code of Conduct--and if the office is well-funded and staffed with competent people to investigate quickly and efficiently. If a business owner suspects a competitor of soliciting government officials for special treatment, the impulse to do the same must be replaced with the impulse to report the competitor(and the government officials) to root out corruption entirely. The World Bank, which funds developmental projects in areas of the world which need them most, has begun to include this as part of its approach, "The Bank Group’s independent Sanctions System includes the Integrity Vice Presidency, which is responsible for investigating allegations of fraud and corruption in World Bank-funded projects. Public complaint mechanisms are built into projects to encourage and empower oversight, and projects are actively supervised during implementation (The World Bank)." In the case of the World Bank, the effect of this approach comes under some doubt because it doesn't hold the prerogatives of a state, but the mechanism itself is sound. The United States itself does something similar in an attempt to decrease global corruption with the Office of Overseas Prosecutorial Development, Assistance, and Training (OPDAT)[^3], "Programs are tailored to host country legal infrastructures as well as international norms and standards. OPDAT coordinates these efforts with the U.S. interagency and the international community (U.S. Department of Justice)." This is a different angle on the same approach, and a combination of the two would provide a sound basis--even if internal instead of external--for the Global Nation's anti-corruption policy.

Fighting the third cause of corruption, a lack of a strong, active judiciary, is a more difficult task because of its disparate nature. In wealthy areas, a few might be able to be bribed, but the vast majority of judges are incorruptible. In poor areas, the opposite is true. The difficulty is in punishing corrupt judges without hampering the ability of the non-corrupt judges to do their jobs, all while acting simultaneously as a check on the other parts of the government trying to root out their corruption. Many authoritarians have used pretexts of anti-corruption to take political opponents off the board, and the Global Nation must be vigilant against this. The United States is failing in this right now--though much of that has to be put down to the politically fraught nature of this--concerning Associate Justice of the Supreme Court Clarence Thomas's Quarter-Million Dollar Loan being largely forgiven by a friend and conservative political donor, "So, the documents we’ve seen indicate Justice Thomas received a $267,000 loan to buy a luxury RV and never repaid most— and likely not even a dollar —of the money that his friend originally loaned him. This has legal consequences ... The tax code makes clear that in instances where debt is canceled, forgiven, or discharged for less than the amount owed, the borrower must report the amount canceled or forgiven as income for tax purposes (Wyden, Ron)." While the most egregious thing here isn't the tax evasion but the fact that a Supreme Court Justice is taking--and being forgiven of--quarter-million-dollar loans from political donors, something that is unfortunately legal in the United States, it must be in the Global Nation to have a judiciary that is truly independent and active in rooting out corruption. The Judiciary should be paid well for their legal acumen, and shouldn't need to take bribes, but that isn't what Judge Thomas did - he was paid well and still took a bribe because save for impeachment(or tax evasion prosecution), what he did was legal. The Global Nation's anti-corruption policy must legally prohibit these kinds of actions, and the judiciary--as well as a separate, independent anti-corruption office--must be able to investigate and prosecute them.

Fighting the fourth cause of corruption, geographic dispersion is an interesting case for the Global Nation. The structure of the government will be explored in this examination later, but regardless of the structural specifics, the Global Nation is gigantic--the whole Earth--with a high disparity in population density across its surface. There are few ways to systemically root out this kind of corruption save for those methods that work to make a more honest, transparent government as a whole, and to work with the population to make corruption a societal ill. Russia, despite being a thoroughly corrupt nation as a whole, struggles with this issue specifically, and especially as it relates to its military. Russia is simply huge, and has military bases spread over its entire area, sometimes hundreds of miles from the nearest neighboring base. This, in addition to the strong centralization focus, means that officers and enlisted men have big incentives for corruption without much threat of oversight. In the mind of Russian commanders in the period between the end of the Soviet Union and the beginning of the war in Ukraine, it didn't matter if the tanks could move more than a few kilometers before breaking down, as long as you had that many tanks under your command to report. In the words of Philip Wasielewski, "Graft and corruption skyrocketed after 1991. During the First Chechen War (1994-1996), Russian soldiers and officers sold weapons, ammunition, and sometimes armored vehicles to Chechen rebels.[38] Russian peacekeepers in the Balkans resold fuel from United Nations stocks and engaged in other types of graft.[39] In one case, when a Russian airborne battalion finished its tour of duty, its soldiers flew home on a military transport while its officers drove to Russia in a convoy of over 120 stolen vehicles (Wasielewski, Philip)." This extends to bases, and corruption as a phenomenon more generally. When fewer parties have more power, and the investigative authorities are spread out over a wide area, it is much easier to be corrupt. Specific mechanisms to fight this kind of corruption are difficult to come by, so the Global Nation must rely on the previously stated mechanisms of a strong judiciary to punish corruption, an active anti-corruption office to root out corruption, a transparent and well-paid government to build trust in its citizenry, and a society that is actively engaged in the political process to hold the government accountable all of which will make this kind of corruption less likely.

To fight the last cause of corruption examined here, the nebulous and difficult-to-pin-down effects of a lack of transparency in government and the associated cultural effect of greater apathy towards the government, all of the previous techniques must be used in concert, and in conjunction with a general governmental philosophy towards transparency and openness with its citizenry. To combat this cause of corruption, no additional punishment or investigatory mechanisms are needed, but structural mechanisms for the continuous sharing of information, policy, and decision-making processes are. More than just combatting societal malaise and apathy towards the government, transparency directly combats corruption by making it harder to hide, "There is a general consensus that transparency - a situation in which information about a decision-making process is made publicly available and can easily be verified both in terms of the rules and the identities of the decision makers - increases the probability of detection of corruption (UNODC)." This focus on making information publicly available, allowing it to be easily verified, and making the identities of the decision makers clear provides an exponential effect on measures to improve citizen's trust and ownership of their government. The reason that having an active, engaged citizenry is so important is that without it the government, with its monopoly on force, can do whatever it wants: including being corrupt. There are virtuous and vicious cycles here that need to be fostered and fought against in turn, that a transparent government leads to greater citizen trust and engagement, which leads to a more transparent government, and that a corrupt government leads to a citizenry stuck in the belief that the government is corrupt and can't be changed, which provides the foundation of apathy and disengagement that allows the government to be corrupt. Specific measures that can be taken to foster this kind of transparency are the publication of all government decisions, the minimization of interest groups in the decision-making process, a total ban on 'soft-money' political donations[^4], a line-item type tax bill that shows where every dollar of tax money is going, as well as various other measures related to political engagement systems that will be discussed in the citizen participation section of this examination. When citizens are engaged in the political process, when they feel that their voice matters and holds equal weight to the voices of their peers, and when they can see what their government is doing with the legitimacy they have given it, then corruption is much less likely to occur and can be more easily rooted out when it does.

Anti-corruption policy and strategy are key for any nation, but in a Global Nation where no external competitor can work to keep the Global Nation honest, it must be structurally done so from the beginning. The Global Nation as a governmental entity must be fundamentally obsessed with rooting out corruption in its ranks, as doing anything less would sacrifice the mandate of the people to the whims of the corrupt. Key strategies that must be employed--and new strategies must be developed from lessons learned--are the elimination of the need for corruption by ensuring that government employees don't _need_ corruption to survive, the creation of an independent anti-corruption office to actively investigate and root out corruption, the creation of a strong judiciary to punish corruption when it is found, and the fostering of a transparent government that actively seeks the input and accountability of its citizenry. These strategies, when taken together, will provide the beginnings of a holistic anti-corruption policy to ensure that the Global Nation is a place where the rule of law cannot be perverted by the corrupt, and where the people can know that their government is truly their own.

[^1]: This works up to a point, but in the highest rungs of government--staffers to the political leadership, the political leadership themselves, and the judiciary--the pay will inevitably be lower than the private sector. This isn't a bad thing, as the people in these roles are supposed to be public servants, not private sector employees and the pay should reflect that. However, these highest rungs will still be far above the average income of the citizenry, which will help to eliminate the need for corruption.
[^2]: It ranks #5 on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index for 2023. Unfortunately, it does this through somewhat autocratic means, something that the Global Nation must be vigilant against, but it indicates fundamental tenets to a successful anti-corruption policy.
[^3]: The anti-corruption office will not sentence or prosecute, but will investigate and refer cases to the judiciary for prosecution. This is a key distinction that must be made to prevent the anti-corruption office from becoming a political weapon, while also adding a key layer of separation to ensure that the judiciary is not corrupted.
[^4]: This point will get greater examination in the political section of this examination, but as it relates to corruption, the Global Nation will consider 'soft money', 'dark money', or any other definition of buying political influence to be corruption. This is a difficult line to walk, but it is an unassailable axiom of this examination that the political figures of the Global Nation(Judiciary, Legislature, and Executive) must not be bought by private interests.
