### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Preventing Mono-Cultural Dominance

#### Response:

The awe-inspiring scale of the Global Nation, encompassing the whole world and all of its people, is threatened by the potential for political entities[^1] to form along cultural lines and a form of mono-cultural dominance through political means to be established. In pre-unification states, political parties founded for the specific advancement of a single ethnicity, religion, geographic region, or other cultural identity fomented artificial divisions outside of political ideology, through the pretense of an "us vs. them" mentality. These parties, and other spontaneous social movements like them, have exemplified and magnified some of the worst humanity is capable of throughout history, from genocide, civil war, the suppression of human rights, and the definite political and economic distinction between people based on their cultural identity. However, equally contrary to the principles of freedom, individual liberty and responsibility, and self-determination, is the idea of government using its power to prevent the formation of these spontaneous social groupings, which in itself would be the exact kind of tyranny this measure would be meant to prevent. Fundamentally, this problem offers a question for the nature of the Global Nation, the greatest conceivable multicultural society: what is multiculturalism in the Global Nation, how is it different from the multiculturalism of the pre-unification world, and how is social dominance by a single culture--whatever that culture may be--to be prevented, if at all?

As explored in the Economic Philosophy of the Global Nation [III.1], the Global Nation adheres to a strongly Liberal[^2] economic philosophy, which asserts strong individual rights in the political sphere more generally. As Irene Bloemraad defined it, "Under classical liberalism, all people must be treated the same, and governments should remain blind to particularities of ethnicity, religion, or national origin. They should not, for example, provide public funding for cultural minority groups," which is countered by the modern multiculturalist approach, which "argues that cultural neutrality in public institutions is impossible. Since democracy is based on government by the majority, minorities face disadvantages in the public sphere despite laws guaranteeing certain rights and freedoms (Bloemraad 2011)." The Global Nation, structurally designed to counter Tyranny of the Majority [IV.4], does reasonably defend against this as a functional safeguard against the growth of tyranny in any form, including this. More strongly though, the idea of a government that must treat people differently to make them equal, as Hayek asserted, is fundamentally flawed. The Global Nation, to maintain internal stability and uphold its values must enforce its continence as a non-arbiter of culture, a self-organizing phenomenon impossible to dictate. A policy, not of mandated equality, but of mandating that all people are equal under the law bar none is the only way to abide by the Global Nation's purpose as the vehicle for the greatest possible freedom and prosperity for all people by the elimination of the legal, economic, and political barriers that have historically divided them. That is what multiculturalism in the Global Nation must be: not the government forcing people to see each other as equals, but the government treating all people as equals, and letting that radiate outwards into the culture. This is a different kind of multiculturalism to that of most Western pre-unification states[^3] which have attempted to legislate multiculturalism into existence, largely due to being expressly non-equal in their treatment of different groups at the time of their inception. The modern political philosophy of multiculturalism endorses a view that "social equality is enhanced when governments explicitly recognize cultural minorities, valorize pluralism, and accommodate the cultural needs of groups. In this way, if a legislature mandates store closings one day a week to give workers a day of rest, businesspeople of different religious faiths should be able to choose the day they close rather than having a Sunday closing — rooted in Christian traditions — imposed upon them (Bloemraad 2011)," provides a stark contrast to the Global Nation's approach to a situation such as this, which would be to not mandate store closings at all, let the business owner decide, and let the market judge if the business owner's decision was a good one by the increase or decrease in market share. The pre-unification states' approach to multiculturalism holds a distinct disadvantage in that the legal rights of many people were not originally equal, with certain groups actively selected as the "true" citizenry and others actively discriminated against, which eventually led to the government stepping in and attempt to rectify the situation, by which point a legacy of political, economic, and social inequality had formed in the roots of the society. The Global Nation, by contrast, is founded on the principle of equality under the law and thus does not need to legislate legal equality between groups, as it is the foundational principle of the state itself.

In the question of political parties formed along the lines of cultural identity, the Global Nation must strictly avoid any intervention in their formation, as they are simply manifestations of the spontaneous social order. Even if one accepts the premise that political parties formed on cultural lines of any sort are more harmful to the political culture of the state than those formed through honest differences of policy, to bar their formation in any way would be a dangerous precedent to set. If any coalescing of the people into a political party or other organizational group happens and does so without coercion or interruption of an individual's rights, then it is a natural and organic process that must not be interfered with[^4]. Any law put in place to prevent cultural dominance via government regulation, to control something of the natural social order of individuals and groups, will be perverted in support of the dominance of a few, perhaps a majority, instead of in defense of the universal rights of all. It is the antipathy of the popular tide in the field of political science to offer no solution where one could be imagined--some mandate or mechanism to prevent something that could reasonably be seen as harmful to the political system itself--but in this case, the only solution that corresponds to the principles and values, not to mention results, of the Global Nation is to decisively remove government from this field and all its neighbors.

#### Footnotes:

[^1]: The term "political entities" is used **here** to refer to any organization, group, or individual that is involved in the political process, not to refer to political institutions or government entities. This is to avoid the overly limiting term "political parties" which may not be the only form of political organization that could form along cultural lines.
[^2]: Capitalized to distinguish from the modern, mostly American but more generally Western, political ideology of being "liberal", i.e. progressive, left-leaning, or however else it is defined in the context of the modern political spectrum. Liberal in this context refers to classical Liberalism, the political philosophy of individual liberty, free markets, and limited government espoused by John Locke, Adam Smith, and Thomas Jefferson, and later taken up by the Austrian School of Economics, among others.
[^3]: The most populus Eastern states, China, India, Japan, Korea, and others, are dramatically less multicultural compared to the Western states, and thus provide little to draw from in terms of examples of in the political sphere.
[^4]: Save for those who do so to commit crimes, but that is an obvious exception to the rule.
