### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Culture and Law: Differing cultural customs and the law of the Global Nation

#### From Outline:

#### Response:

Discussions of the intersection of cultural differences and the law are fraught with difficulty, potential for misunderstanding, and viewpoints that are often in direct opposition to one another without a pathway for clear resolution. The Global Nation, as a multicultural society, must be prepared to handle these issues with a deft hand and a precise understanding of the principles that underlie its existence, and its citizens' relations to it. Functionally, there is no way to please everyone, especially when it comes to deeply held beliefs and cultural practices that directly contradict one another--wars have been fought over this issue for the whole of the history of human civilization. Despite this impressive hurdle, the Global Nation must be willing to undergo the hardship of setting a new standard for justice and fairness in both tolerance and legal righteousness. The core question remains whether the Global Nation will hold legal standards that allow for what could well be called illegal if it wasn't for the cultural context, or if it will hold to a universalist standard that is applied to all citizens regardless of their cultural background. The answer to this question is not simple, and the implications of the answer bump up against the core goals and values of the Global Nation in the realms of economics, politics, and the rule of law.

To begin with, a definition of terms, starting with the two most central to this discussion: cultural relativism and cultural universalism[^1]. Cultural relativism, as per John J. Tilley, is the belief that "Although for every culture some moral [judgments] are valid, no moral [judgments] is _universally_ valid, meaning valid for all cultures. Instead, every moral [judgment] is culturally relative (Tilley, John J.)". This means that what is considered right or wrong, good or bad, moral or immoral, is determined by the circumstances--in this case, the culture--in which the judgment is made. In contrast, cultural universalism is, "the view that the values, concepts, and behaviors characteristic of diverse cultures can be viewed, understood, and judged according to universal standards (American Psychological Association)". This means, in practical terms, that there are moral standards that can be universally applied as a function of being human, above and beyond the cultural context in which they are applied. This would appear an appealing standard to hold to in the most multicultural society imaginable, as it would allow for a common standard of justice and fairness to be applied to all citizens, regardless of their cultural background. However, the implications of this standard are not as simple as they might appear at first glance. One must look no further than the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights to see the potential for conflict between cultural relativism and universalism, and how it affects law.

It must first be remarked that the legal effect of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, as a function of the United Nations powerlessness (see [II.2]), is limited to the extent that it is enforced by the member states of the United Nations--which is to say, not at all. However, the principles the document espouses are certainly the most notable example of a universalist standard of human rights that has been agreed upon, at least in principle, by the majority of the world's nations, and it says so in Article 1: "All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood (United Nations)". This universalist statement is the foundational claim of the document, the cornerstone on which even more expansive declarations are made, including a definition of universal rights themselves in Article 2, "Everyone is entitled to all the rights and freedoms set forth in this Declaration, without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status (United Nations)," and a statement in Article 7 of cultural universalism before the law, "All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination (United Nations)." These statements endorse a universalist standard of human rights, and a recognition of this standard as not only politically but _legally_ forceful. One need only look to Article 16.2 of the Declaration to see where this runs into conflict with cultural relativism, though, "Marriage shall be entered into only with the free and full consent of the intending spouses (United Nations)." This statement, clearly universalist, runs into direct conflict with the cultural practices of many nations, where arranged marriages are the norm, and the consent of the spouses is not a consideration--and frequently, the spouses are _accepting_ of this arrangement, seeing nothing wrong or objectionable in it due to its pervasion in their culture. Should the Global Nation hold to a universalist standard, it would be forced to condemn these practices as illegal, and potentially even criminal, even though the spouses involved see nothing wrong with it. Many more examples could be given, but this one is sufficient to illustrate the point: is complaint the point at which the Global Nation should intervene in cultural practices, or should it hold to a universalist standard that is applied to all citizens regardless of their cultural background? Does the Global Nation enforce a standard of justice and fairness stemming from the most basic conceivable rights, and through this move the standard of normalcy in the whole world to a single standard over time, or is this equally as oppressive as the cultural practices it seeks to eliminate? If cultural practices give sovereignty of _individual1_ to _individual2_, are _individual1_'s rights to self-determination and self-expression being infringed upon, or is the Global Nation infringing upon _individual2_'s rights by "returning" _individual1_ to self-ownership? These are the questions this section seeks to answer.

The argument that only at the point of complaint should the Global Nation intervene in cultural practices is a compelling one, as it both removes the state from the position of judge of cultural practices and allows for large autonomy in the cultural practices of the citizens of the Global Nation. However, this argument fails under the test that in waiting for a complaint, the Global Nation is allowing for oppression to continue, and potentially even to grow, as the oppressed are not given a voice to speak out against their oppressors, either through intimidation, lack of understanding of their rights and the law, or through the cultural pervasion of the practice itself. This argument also fails under the basis that at its core, and despite strong and continued efforts to minimize the _scope_ of the state, the Global Nation is not a passive "background entity", its laws are not merely suggestions, and its citizens are not merely "members of a club". Even Nozick, he of the minimal state, defended a state intervening so far as it is protecting the rights of an individual from another, "Side constraints [on the actions of individuals] express the inviolability of other persons. But why may not one violate persons for the greater social good? ... But there is no _social entity_ with a good that undergoes some sacrifice for its own good. There are only individual people, different individual people, with their own individual lives. Using one of these people for the benefit of others, uses him and benefits the others (Nozick, Robert)." The basis of the Global Nation is the protection of the rights of the individual, to as great an extent as possible, from coercion by others, and from the state itself. By permitting cultural practices that cannot be rationally justified against the most basic rights of the individual, the rule of law itself is made meaningless--who would judge what a superior cultural practice to the law is, how is that defended?--and a spiral into mutually exclusive groupings of rights and responsibilities is created, where the rights of one group are in direct opposition to the rights of another, and the state is forced to choose between them. This is not a tenable, nor justifiable, position for the Global Nation to hold.

The answer of delegating this question to more local forms of government such that people can associate with those who share their cultural practices is attractive as a first-principles solution, it fails under the consideration that it is directly contrary to the foundational purpose of the Global Nation, to unify the world under a standard of legality, free movement, free trade, free expression, and self-ownership. To allow for the delegation of this question to local governments would be to allow for the creation of a patchwork of laws that would be in direct opposition to the foundational principles of the Global Nation, and would create a situation where, as a function of this cultural monopoly, political power would be the arm of cultural designs, and the Global Nation would then become little better than the pre-unification nations that it replaced. A single standard of legality must be held to, otherwise, the Global Nation holds no meaning as a Nation, instead becoming a loose confederation of states that are in direct opposition to one another, self-organizing into conflicting factions based on local culture.

Thus, the Global Nation must hold to a system of superior law and inferior culture in so far as they are in conflict. Despite this, the Global Nation is not an arbiter of culture. Any cultural practice that does not infringe upon the rights of the individual or the rights of another, is permitted, parents still hold a standard of sovereignty and guardianship over their children[^2], and all citizens are free to practice--or not, as the case may be--their religion, their customs, and their traditions as a matter of free expression. However, the Global Nation must be prepared to intervene in cultural practices that infringe upon the rights of the individual, or the rights of another, as a matter of law in so far as one party did not consent to the practice, or the party, through lack of understanding or intimidation, was not able to give _informed_ consent. This stands above the cultural relativism vs. universalism debate and instead is a matter of ensuring the total superiority of the law as a vehicle of justice. Just as with anything else, anything done with informed consent is permitted--and can be unpermitted by the party at any time--and anything done without informed consent, coercion, violates the rights of the individual, and is illegal. This is the standard the Global Nation must hold to, in reality, a far more liberal standard than that of any pre-unification nation, and one that provides a freedom to the citizens of the Global Nation that is unparalleled in human history, while maintaining legal protections for the maintenance of the infrangible rights of the individual. To apply this standard to the previous example of parents arranging marriages for their children, the Global Nation would not intervene in the practice so long as both parties--the children in question--consent to the agreement, and can give _informed_ consent(above the age of majority or other standard for self-ownership). If either child is unable to give informed consent or does not consent to the arrangement, the children would hold legal recourse to prevent the marriage from taking place, and the parents would be held accountable for their actions. In effect, this ensures a maximum of total ownership of the self, while still allowing for cultural practices that can consensually delegate that ownership--in any amount--to another party.

This question of cultural practices vs. rule of law is not a simple one, and a personal objection to this standard may prove a substantive objection to the idea of the Global Nation itself. However, as this examination does not include the fiction of how the Global Nation is to be formed, political pandering to compromise these standards to gain popular support is not a consideration. In defense of this standard, the unimpeachable rights of the individual are held above all else, and the Global Nation is held to a standard of justice towards all citizens, and in ensuring justice _between_ citizens as well. The ability to delegate self-ownership and enter into consensual agreements far beyond those allowed[^3] in nearly any pre-unification nation is a powerful tool for the citizens of the Global Nation to exercise their rights that the state has no claim to. The Global Nation, as a by-product of being a "clean-slate" nation, and without external competitors to conform to or posture against, is able to hold to a standard of justice, freedom, and citizen empowerment that is unparalleled in human history. This is a standard worth defending against the rot of internal political intrigue and the siren song of "us vs. them" cultural division that seek to blur the lines of humanity's true likeness to one another, and the rights that all humans are endowed with.

#### Footnotes:

[^1]: Cultural universalism is also sometimes, and sometimes not interchangeably, referred to as cultural absolutism. To avoid confusion, ensure precision, and avoid the potential for misunderstanding with the political term "absolutism", I will use the term "universalism" throughout this section.
[^2]: This examination will not delve into the specifics of children's rights, as that is a topic that could fill a book without finding a justifiable conclusion. For this examination, the human rights of children are assumed to be the same as the human rights of adults, with the guardianship of the parents giving them dominion--so far as it does not cause harm to the child--over the child's rights. While a more nuanced discussion of the rights of children in areas like religion, education, and self-determination could be justifiably included in this section, the fundamental principles and strategy of the Global Nation would remain the same in either case and thus are not included in this examination.
[^3]: While applied to culture here, this legal framework for the Global Nation would legalize nearly all forms of consensual agreements, including those that are currently illegal in nearly all pre-unification nations, such as prostitution, dueling, and the sale of organs. While this level of freedom may make some squeamish, it is not only a necessary part of the Global Nation's legal framework but also a valuable point of self-reflection regarding _why_ totality of self-ownership is uncomfortable, and if that discomfort is a truly rational or irrational response to the practice.

#### Sources:

1. United Nations. "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". 1948. [United Nations](https://www.un.org/en/about-us/universal-declaration-of-human-rights)
2. Hajiyeva, Nagriz. "The clash of human rights ideas between universalism and relativism". 2019. [Modern Diplomacy](https://moderndiplomacy.eu/2019/04/11/the-clash-of-human-rights-ideas-between-universalism-and-relativism/)
3. Gurbanli, Zaur. "The Universalism of Human Rights or Cultural Relativism?". 2018. [Baku Research Institute](https://bakuresearchinstitute.org/en/the-universalism-of-human-rights-or-cultural-relativism/)
4. Laborde, Cécile. "Female Autonomy, Education, and the Hijab". 2006. [Critical Review of International Social and Political Philosophy 9 (3): 351–377.](https://www.ias.edu/sites/default/files/sss/pdfs/Laborde-Female-Autonomy.pdf)
5. Tilley, John. J. "Cultural Relativism, Universalism, and the Burden of Proof". 1998. [Millennium 27 (2): 275-297.](https://doi.org/10.1177/03058298980270020601)
6. American Psychological Association. "Cultural Universalism". 2018. [APA Dictionary of Psychology](https://dictionary.apa.org/cultural-universalism)
7. McLachlan, Hugh V. and Scott, Michael. "Rationality and relativism: a defense of absolutism". 1985. [The British Journal of Sociology 36 (4): 604–610.](https://doi.org/10.2307/590335)
8. Nozick, Robert. "Anarchy, State, and Utopia". 1974. [Basic Books](https://www.basicbooks.com/titles/robert-nozick/anarchy-state-and-utopia/9780465051007/)
