### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Government Structure

#### Outline

<!-- TODO: When revising, add something about naming the provinces just by number. We want to eliminate a kind of "allegiance" there. -->

Operational structures of government reflect the values, beliefs, priorities, and attitudes of the people they serve at the time of their creation. The Global Nation is no different, but holds a unique position in that it is a new nation, created from the voluntary unification of separate nations, and holding a diverse population--the whole of humanity--with a wide range of beliefs, values, and priorities. In reference to the fundamental question of how the Global Nation would be structured, and in deference to the preconditions of this examination which ensure that the Global Nation be democratic[^1] not autocratic or monarchic, the systemic form of this government would have to be federal, unitary, or some combination of the two--all other options fall outside this scope, or outside of the scope of practicality[^2]. To disambiguate, this is not a question of the structures of how citizens participate in the government of the Global Nation nor how much day-to-day control they have over the government compared to elected representatives, but rather how the government is structured and how it is organized for its operations.

To further define the terms in question here, Federalism is defined in the Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy as "sovereignty in federal political orders is non-centralized, often constitutionally, between at least two levels so that units at each level have final authority and can be self governing in some issue area. Citizens thus have political obligations to, or have their rights secured by, two authorities. (Follesdal 2022)", and can be specifically useful to "accommodate differences among populations divided by ethnic or cultural cleavages yet seeking a common, often democratic, political order (Follesdal 2022)". This is to be contrasted with its opposite--in this very specific context, though not in general political science--the unitary model, which is defined as "a governing system in which a single central government has total power over all of its other political subdivisions (Longley 2022)". In the current world of nation-states, the United States unarguably carries the flag for the federalist model, while the majority of other nations, including France and China as prime examples, follow the unitary model. It is important to note that a calculation of an "optimal" government structure is impossible and that most nations operating on a federalist or unitary model incorporate elements, practices, and policy recommendations from the other model as they see fit. Absolutes in government structures are an impossibility due to the spontaneous nature of human society and the continually changing world these societies exist in.

The implementation of the Federalist model in the United States has, to an incalculable extent, been successful in its ability to accommodate differences among populations and accelerate the United States' growth and development to that of the most economically, politically, and culturally powerful nation in the world. The principles, reasoning, and philosophy behind the Federalist model come _largely_ from the helpfully titled "Federalist Papers" by Alexander Hamilton, James Madison, and John Jay. In these articles, the authors argue for the necessity of a federalist model to ensure the rights of the people, the balance of power in the federal government, between the state and federal governments, and the stability of the nation. In doing so, they recognized what all conceptions of the political structure must, "Among the most formidable of the obstacles which the new Constitution will have to encounter may readily be distinguished the obvious interest of a certain class of men in every State to resist all changes which may hazard a diminution of the power, emolument, and consequence of the offices they hold under the State establishments; and the perverted ambition of another class of men, who will either hope to aggrandize themselves by the confusions of their country, or will flatter themselves with fairer prospects of elevation from the subdivision of the empire into several partial confederacies than from its union under one government (Hamilton, Madison, and Jay 1787)". This is to say, the Federalist model is not perfect, but it does an admirable job at restraining the power of the government--to the consternation of the intellectual desire to continually influence society in favor of the 'right' way--and ensuring the rights of the people.

This is not to claim that the unitary model is incapable of ensuring the rights of the people or the balance of power in the government, but rather that the federalist model makes that the central pillar for all governmental design choices. The unitary model, as seen in France[^3] is primarily oriented around operational efficiency and standardization, with the central government being the most 'direct' representation of the people, and thus having total dominion over the sub-governments. Some of the benefits of the unitary form of government are that it is easier to implement and change policy, the total scope of bureaucracy is smaller, and the central government does not require the level of cooperation for policy implementation that a federalist government does--smaller, faster, more nimble. France's national character makes it a poor data point for generalization, but on a strictly policy level, it does show some of the potential drawbacks as well. Mixing the nature of the unitary model with French national character, "this state-society relationship a specific pattern of policy processes emerges. The state often formulates policies unilaterally, without first consulting groups that may be affected (Daemen and Schap 2000)". This leads to the common protests and strikes that France is known for, as the people feel that they are not being heard by the government. This is partly due to the unitary nature of the government, but also due to the French national character, so this must be taken as something to be balanced by federalist elements in the Global Nation, but not as a reason for total rejection of the unitary model. Another obvious drawback of the unitary model is that it is, by its nature, unitary - the Global Nation holds a scope of diversity unparalleled among even the most heterogeneous of nation-states, and a unitary model _could_ struggle with a political environment aligned on ethnic or geographic lines instead of ideological ones. This is an issue that will be explored in more depth in the cultural and social sections of this examination, but within the context of government structure, it is a possible constraint to be aware of and consider.

To reach its goals of political stability, rapid economic growth, and the acceleration of human development in its many forms, the organizational structure of the Global Nation must be a combination of federalist and unitary elements and arranged in a unique way: an "objectively scaleable" structure. The elements here are directly related to both the tax policy--distribution of resources between government levels--and the "structure of action" of the government, how decisions are made, how they are implemented, how much lee-way different entities have in the implementation of policy within the bounds of the Global Nation. To clarify the term "objectively scaleable", this strictly does not refer to the scaling up of government power, authority, or influence over the daily lives of its citizens; rather, it refers to the scaling of the structure of government itself based upon the geographical or population bounds an entity covers. For example, a city government holding a population of 10,000 should near-linearly be one-tenth the size of a city government holding a population of 100,000, which should be one-one-hundredth the size of a state or province government holding a population of 1,000,000, and so on. This near-linear scale--with some adjustments for the direct desires of the local citizenry in their participation in government, and specific considerations for the unique needs of geography and population--continues to the "federal"[^4] government of the Global Nation. This is not a "federalist" structure, nor is it a "unitary" structure, but a unique combination of the two that allows for the most efficient and effective government structure possible for the Global Nation. Concerning tax policy, 1/3 of all tax revenue collected by the Global Nation would be distributed to the federal government, 1/3 to the state/province governments, and 1/3 to the local governments. This is not a simplification, this is a necessity for the Global Nation to function effectively and efficiently, and to ensure a strong balance of power while also helping the total world with Global efforts and helping keep local knowledge and needs in the hands of the local governments. This is, in essence, a "scaled down, distributed version of central structure and philosophy" that allows for the most effective concentration of talent and resources at the level of government that can best utilize them, while also ensuring that the scope of government is very difficult to expand beyond the bounds expressly determined by this examination. Harkening back to the economic philosophy of the Global Nation,

Exploring the specifics of the implementation of this structure, starting at the local level provides a holistic view of what the scaled-up operational principles of objectively scaleable government look like. Due to the directly proportional nature of the tax revenue distribution, local government would hold comparatively greater responsibility for action than in the majority of pre-unification nation-states where the vast majority of taxes are funneled to the regional or federal level. Despite this, due to the significantly smaller scope of government itself under the Global Nation and its correspondingly lower taxes, the primary functions of most local governments would be in policing, local infrastructure development, and providing a local vehicle for higher-level policy implementation. This is not to say that local governments would be powerless, but considering the considerably smaller scope of government in general, many of the previous responsibilities of local governments are no longer in the purview of government at all. For example, education is not a government responsibility, but a private one where the value of an education is determined by the individual and the market, not by the government. This is not to say that a local or state/provincial government couldn't provide vouchers or other forms of assistance to those within its purview, but they couldn't raise taxes beyond the set caps defined in the section on taxation policy to do it. Any new initiatives of the more local forms of government would have to both conform to the founding principles of the Global Nation and be paid for by reallocating resources from the existing total pot of resources, not by raising taxes. In reference to the Federal level regarding this point, it would be incapable of doing this as it cannot enact a policy non-universally--doing so out of the total sum of funds would be a violation of the principles of the Global Nation, save for the short-term "Second Marshall Plan" discussed previously--and thus exempts itself from this specific area. In addition, given whatever funds are not allocated elsewhere, the local government would be responsible for the execution of policy initiatives that are decided upon by the local legislature and population, _as long as they are not in opposition of the principles of the Global Nation nor policy at higher levels of government_. This is a key point, as local governments must act as both the most direct point of input for the population into how they are governed while also being a direct subsidiary entity in many ways of the Federal government of the Global Nation. It is also the sole power of the local government to deploy funds for the sole in-built "welfare policy" of the Global Nation, unemployment insurance. The specific details of how long unemployment benefits last for, how much they are--something relative to the cost of living in the area--is up to the local government's legislature and citizenry to decide upon, but is paid for in proportion from the town/city, state/provincial, and federal levels of government.

Moving up to the state/provincial level[^5], the county or intermediary level between the town/city level and the state is eliminated in this organization. At this level, the main functions of government would include infrastructure development on a larger scale, facilitating coordination and unity of policy implementation between town/city level governments, and implementing wider scale policy initiatives decided upon by the state/provincial legislature and its citizens. While this does sound very familiar to the local government, that is exactly the point--they are, in effect, the same entity but scaled up. While the reach of the state/provincial government is slightly larger proportionally due to additionally being responsible for the coordination of policy between local governments, the scope of government is limited by the same fundamental principles as the Global Nation as a whole. Namely, that government should be strictly limited in its scope and power to influence the lives of its citizens through coercion beyond the most basic of functions. It is not powerless, it implements policy voted upon by the citizens and legislature and acts as a vehicle for the implementation of higher-level operational policy with its attached branch offices of the executive departments, but the in-built bias of the Global Nation--the policies that fit within the scope of the constitutional authority of the Global Nation--is strongly in favor of individual freedom of action, and against the arbitrary dictates of government. Of the funds not already apportioned, the majority of it would go to projects that wouldn't be funded at higher or lower levels due to, respectively, their scale being too small or too big to either be a universally applicable policy or a policy inside of a single town/city. This might include, in a mountainous state/province, the construction of a new road connecting many smaller towns/cities, or the construction of an irrigation canal benefitting several towns/cities in a heavily agricultural state/province. These kinds of projects which are too big of a scope for a single local government to take on but not a universally applicable policy would be the primary purview of the state/provincial government, acting both as the executor of the policy itself and also connecting relevant local governments to assist as well as departments of the executive branch in-so-far as they hold knowledge and resources that would be useful in the implementation of the policy.

Scaling up to the widest scale imaginable[^6], the federal level of a Global Nation, the functions of this level do once again increase slightly more than proportionally to the state/provincial level, but the aims and principles remain the same. The addition of the executive departments [^7], something that the executives of lower levels do not hold--instead liaising with the branch offices of the departments--and the legislature's rule-making regarding their initiatives and the funds they are allocated, are the primary additions at this level. The executive departments are not, as in the pre-unification states, semi-autonomous fiefdoms acting at the direction but not the instruction of the executive branch using funds allocated in a politicized manner--either too broad strokes or for the direct benefit of an individual crafting the budget--but are instead the specialized execution arms of the executive branch. The purpose of the system of departments in the Global Nation is to ensure that the policy decided upon by the legislative branch and the citizenry, delegated to the executive branch for implementation, is carried out most effectively and efficiently. This is most effectively achieved by the departments acting--through the skills of specialized staff in positions where their unique knowledge or abilities are most useful--as the executor of deliberately narrow slices of policy, and not as the creator of any of its own. Without direct citizen participation in the operations and decisions of the executive departments, and in trying to limit their ability to act as independent administrative fiefdoms while also maximizing the output of taxpayer funds, the departments are most effective when operating in a highly vertical manner from the Federal down to the town/city level. In addition to the operational control and rule-making for the departments, the primary arms of implementing policy at all levels, the Federal level of government would also feature policies voted on by the legislature and the citizenry that are too large in scope for a state/provincial government to take on or are universally applicable(a tax cut, an expansion of rights, the funding of a program for the benefit of all citizens, etc.).

It is valuable to return to the point regarding lower levels of government being a vehicle for the implementation of higher-level policy, as this mechanism means that a branch office of a department of the executive branch would be located in the local government, and would be responsible for the local specifics of policy implementation in this area. This is, in function as well as in form, not a miniaturized or local version of a higher-level department but simply a distributed arm of the higher-level department. This is to say, the local branch office of a singular department at a lower level of government liaises with and works in concert with the executive of the lower level following the guidelines and policies of the department at a higher level. How this would work in actuality is that the lower level government--paying for half of the department office's budget for its operations at that level--would hold partial sway over the direction, placement, or other factors of how a policy or project was to be carried out(assume it wasn't pre-determined from above) but would not have the ability to order the department office to act in a way that was in opposition to the guidelines set by the department at a higher level. This is to ensure that the policy is carried out most effectively and efficiently and that the department is acting as the executor of policy, not as the creator of it which is the role of the legislature and the citizenry. This is the critically unique aspect of the Global Nation's government structure, one that allows a high degree of local flexibility, something important due to the wide range of cultures, geographies, and populations that the Global Nation encompasses, while also ensuring that the policy remains in unity with the principles of the Global Nation as an institution and the will of the citizenry as a whole. An additional check on the departments is that lower forms of government have the right to deny funding for specific projects--though not department offices as a whole--dependent on a referendum of the citizens within that town/city or state/province. This check, which should be used sparingly, allows for the citizenry of a specific area to push back against higher-level dictates that they feel do not align with their values or needs, ensuring that the Global Nation is always acting in service of the public trust. Finally, in regards to the executive departments, it is essential that relative to the executive departments of pre-unification nations they must be much smaller in scope to be highly specialized in their function and minimally political in their operations. The goal is for each department to be as full of experts in their field as possible, giving a tool to the executive branch that doesn't have to be reformed and purged of political appointees every time a new administration comes into power. For example, the pre-unification United States Department of Transportation[^8] has separate Aviation, Highway, Maritime, Railroad, and Transit administrations, all of which should be separate departments in the Global Nation(if some or all aren't eliminated) to ensure that the most specialized knowledge is being used in the most effective way possible. In trying to coordinate all of these under a single department, their operations are less efficient and less effective, and the same would only be magnified at the Global level.

[^1]: In the most literal sense, literally "the people" and "power" - the legitimacy, authority, and power of the government is derived from the people, the form of this representation will be discussed in a following section.
[^2]: For example, a high-level "protector" Global Nation government with Nozickean "night-watchman" state characteristics with very small local sub-governments. Interesting for a thought experiment on political philosophy, but not practical for a real-world government structure. Another example would be "lottocracy" as was once done in some ancient Greek city-states, to have a common man--in so far as a common man qualified as a citizen--be a leader. This is, again, interesting historically and philosophically, but not practical for the operations of a modern nation-state let alone a Global Nation.
[^3]: France will be the example for the unitary model for one primary reason: China, the world's most populous nation, and a unitary state, is not a democracy so lacks direct allegorical comparison to the Global Nation.
[^4]: This is not a federation, nor is it a specifically federalist structure, but the term "federal" is used here to denote the highest level of government in the Global Nation, to avoid confusion with the "Global Nation" as an entity or terms with negative connotations like "central", "supreme", or "world government".
[^5]: Whether they are called states, provinces, regions, or something else is immaterial to the discussion of their function and structure, and will be referred to as "state/province" for the sake of brevity and clarity. The term "region" is used more widely in this examination to mean the areas of the Global Nation that were formerly nations, and their specific cultural, political, economic, and social characteristics in relation to the Global Nation.
[^6]: Important to note that scope and scale are not synonymous. The scope of government is how much purview, and coercive ability, it has over its citizens, while the scale of government is simply how widely it extends geographically or in population. The Global Nation, as constructed in this examination, holds limited scope and unparalleled scale, allowing for the forces of freedom and individuality--not artificial division or dictate, to be the guiding principles of human interaction and governance.
[^7]: The term "departments" is used here to mean what is analogous to a "ministry" in many other countries, but is used here to disambiguate with the term "ministry" which has religious connotations in many languages and cultures--especially important in the Global Nation for reasons of separation of church and state and respect for the highly heterogeneous nature of the Global Nation.
[^8]: This, along with every other U.S. Executive Department, holds many sub-departments that would be eliminated in the Global Nation as contrary to its principles and economic philosophy.
