### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Hold-Overs

#### Response

Unifying the world's nations into a single entity would include the transfer of government structures, infrastructure, debt, patents, intellectual property, and other assets. While this is a monumental task, it is not unprecedented. This will not be narrative fiction of how the Global Nation could go about this, but rather an examination of how to structure such a transition to ensure maximal efficiency, minimal disruption, and to ensure that the transition to a Global Nation works in concert with the plans for the Global Nation's future. This task is complicated by the comparative dearth of historical examples, as cases of nations unifying are far rarer than splitting apart in recent history, so a necessarily small sample size must be called upon. Each of these issues will be examined in turn with a specific focus on how this political action--this is not an ordered economic transition, that is left for the market's spontaneous organization--would accelerate the Global Nation's goals, and how it sets up for the future success of the Global Nation.

To begin with, the machinery of government: police, tax collectors, military[^1], and other government employees would be retained and employed by the Global Nation. Without question, a large number of these employees would be let go over time, but starting from scratch without a bureaucracy on day one of the Global Nation would be a disaster. While the faults of the old governments would be retained in the personnel that would be used for the transition to a Global Nation, under a new system some of the sycophants and self-serving individuals would perhaps change their ways under the new philosophy of the ascendant Global Nation. More than this, the functions of the retained individuals would be modified but not removed, as the necessity of a police force, tax collection, and bureaucracy (all of which will change in form and function) don't go away with the creation of the Global Nation. Tax collection would look different because of the new taxation system and economic philosophy, policing would look different in many parts of the world due to the Global Nation's anti-corruption focus, and the bureaucracy would look different due to the more minimal part the Global Nation will be playing in the economy compared to pre-unification nations, but most of the functions would in essence remain.

The example of the semi-retenance of the East German government's bureaucracy after German reunification is a good example of how this could be done. This example is not perfect, as much of the East German government was let go, but this was due to the completely contrary political and economic systems of East and West Germany. According to Hellmut Wollmann, "The GDR’s state was typical of the (post-Stalinist) ‘socialist’ state model based on the dual structure of the intertwined state and communist party apparatus which, by 1990, was made up of around 1000 administrative units with about 2.1 million functionaries and employees (Wollmann 2021)." Much of the East German government was let go for either ideological or functional reasons--not a socialist state, the market managed production, not the government--but large portions of the staff were retained or retrained for the new government, "the new _Land_ governments were faced with the decision of whether to liquidate the administrative units ‘inherited’ from the GDR state or retain and fit them into a new organisational architecture. In pursuit of this task, ‘often the ruins of the former administrative structure with its personnel and material equipment became a quarry for the new administrative units’ (Wollmann 2021)." This provides a valuable insight into merging the world's governmental structures, created for their own government's economic and political systems, into a single entity with a unity of purpose. The Global Nation's economic and political systems as defined in this paper are significantly different from those of the current world's nations, somewhat as a function of it being a single entity, but not opposites as East and West Germany were. The scale of it would be much larger, and many of the states unified into the Global Nation would have similarly large and complex governmental structures for citizen and economic control as East Germany did, but the principle of retaining and retraining the staff--save for high-level officials and those who are ideologically opposed to the Global Nation's goals--is a good one.

The question of governmental debt is an existential one for the formation of a Global Nation, one without a clear answer. In the case of individuals buying foreign or domestic government debt, it would go against the spirit and goals of the Global Nation--not to mention the economic philosophy, which holds with the liberal tradition in considering property rights to be fundamental--to not honor those obligations as they were made in the pre-integration parts of the integrated Global Nation. In the case of State-to-State debt, there are valid arguments for both wiping the slate clean as it would effectively be the Global Nation owing itself, and for transferring the debt to the Global Nation and functionally administering it as a 'gradient' to tax distribution until the amount owed is paid--the taxpayers of the debt-holder paid for the debt, the debtor got benefit from it so they should pay for it. Both of these must be explored, as a plan to deal with the debt is fundamental to the economic and political stability of the Global Nation, and planning for the scope of its operations.

Beginning with the "wiping-the-slate-clean" option, two historical examples raise themselves as obvious examples[^2]: the Confederate States of America, and the 1953 London Debt Agreement forgiving much of West Germany's debt. The Confederate States of America, a government based on insurrection against the United States, was not held responsible for its debt after the American Civil War because it didn't exist anymore: this is a notable caveat to its use as a historical example, but the fundamental principle remains. The United States Constitution's 14th Amendment clearly states, "neither the United States nor any State shall assume or pay any debt or obligation incurred in aid of insurrection or rebellion against the United States, or any claim for the loss or emancipation of any slave; but all such debts, obligations and claims shall be held illegal and void ("Amendment XIV" 1868)." Given the non-existence of the government that incurred the debt--and its illegitimacy, something not applicable to nations pre-unification--the debt was absorbed by the United States government. The 1953 London Debt Agreement, on the other hand, was a case of a government forgiving the debt of another government. The London Debt Agreement was a plan to strengthen the West German economy as a matter of geostrategic necessity by waving and changing the terms of debts from the Treaty of Versailles and the inter-war period. The costs of WWI were tremendous, and it was politically as well as economically necessary to foist the costs of the conflict on the defeated parties: in the case of Germany, 132 billion marks were owed to the victors. The Weimar Republic delayed or failed to pay the greater portions of these debts, and much of what was paid was paid indirectly from American loans. This literal case of "taking a loan from Peter to pay Paul" became untenable for the German economy following the Great Depression, and tranches of default and renegotiation followed. The struggle for debt/reparations payments was finally mostly resolved during the inter-war period with the Lausanne Conference of 1932, but this didn't end the problem for post-war West Germany. "West Germany did not yet have full sovereignty, however, and one of the obstacles to its full independence was the outstanding issue of the defaults of the 1930s. As the legal successor state to the defunct German Reich, West Germany recognized its responsibility for the state debt. The Allies also wanted the Federal Republic to accept responsibility for ensuring the payment of private debts, which strictly speaking was not its responsibility as the Reich’s successor state (Guinnane 2015)." The London Debt Agreement was a way to resolve the greater part of this issue, and it did so by forgiving large parts of the debt and making the terms on it far easier for the German government to pay. Large portions of the debt were even pushed off until the nebulous future point of the reunification of Germany, under the idea that the whole of Germany had been responsible for the debt in the past, and so only half of the country shouldn't bear the burden of it. In addition, not having the specter of so much debt would allow the German economy and industry to grow, providing a partner in the geostrategic struggle against the Soviet Union. This offers a fair point of view for the resolution of the inter-governmental debt of the pre-unification debts of the nations that make up the Global Nation - rapid economic growth is a central point of the economic philosophy of the Global Nation, and perhaps the best way to ensure that is to not have the burden of the debt of the past. Despite this, another point of view must be considered: the _regions_[^3] that got the benefit of the pre-unification debts should be held liable to those that bought the debt by some mechanism for the benefits received.

The principles for the institution of a mechanism to have pre-unification debt obligations be reflected in Global Nation government spending--though no direct example of this exists because nations infrequently unify--can be taken from the reunification of Germany, and the dissolution of Yugoslavia. The reunification of Germany, despite its differences from the Global Nation's unification, is a good example of how to handle the debt of the pre-unification entities. The West German government(Federal Republic of Germany, but "West Germany" for simplicity here) simply assumed the debt of the East German government(German Democratic Republic, but "East Germany" for simplicity here) as a part of the reunification process. This was not a simple matter, but it was a necessary one for the reunification of the two Germanys. The "cost" of gaining the rest of Germany back for the unifying party, West Germany, was the assumption of the to-be-unified party's debt, and it was not as if the East German people wouldn't be helping to pay it down, as they were now part of the same country. Additionally, many state-owned enterprises in East Germany--Communist East Germany was a command economy--were sold off to private investors, and the proceeds were used to pay down the debt. This is something that will be done in the Global Nation and could help offset debt obligations between former regions of the unified Global Nation. For example, upon unification of Russia into the Global Nation, the state-owned enterprises of the Russian Federation would be sold off to private investors--even without the need to repay debts, just as a function of the economic philosophy of the Global Nation--and the proceeds would be used to pay down the debt, both individual and state-to-state debt, of the region that was the Russian Federation. In the case of the debt of the former state of Yugoslavia following its dissolution, the debt was divided between the new states that were formed from the dissolution. The two largest justifications for the splitting of the debt, unity of benefit and undue enrichment, explained by Guido Acquaviva as, "such debts are
obligations under a sort of 'droit superdtatique', 'une institution de droit sui generis'[62] for which the entire fortune and all sources of income of the debtor state are responsible within the limits of the territory as it existed at the moment when the debt was contracted; it is this whole territory that remains burdened by it ... [and] a justification by generally recognized considerations of aequum et bonum, bona fide.' When a state contracts a debt, it should not be allowed subsequently to disallow it and get away with an 'undue enrichment.' (Acquaviva 2002)." Both of these principles, used in the splitting of the debt of the former Yugoslavia via a formula regarding population and economic output of the now-split-regions, have a likeness in the newly unified Global Nation. The regions that benefited from having the capital of the pre-unification nations should not be allowed to get away with an "undue enrichment" at the expense of the regions that provided the capital, expecting to be paid back.

Both of these arguments have merit, and both hold feasible unity with the doctrines of the economic philosophy of the Global Nation, but the question must be answered from this examination and not be a matter left to representatives of the Global Nation upon unification. This issue, symptomatic of the larger issue of the transition to a Global Nation, must be answered before the unification of the world's nations into a single entity, otherwise, too much political infighting will occur in the direct self-interest of the regions that make up the Global Nation. This issue would create pseudo-national divides within the Global Nation, running contrary to the direct reason for being _of_ the Global Nation. The debt of the pre-unification nations must be handled in a way that is fair to all regions of the Global Nation, while not standing in the way of economic growth as well as political and economic interconnectedness that is the primary benefit of the Global Nation. The solution, of these two, that best fits these criteria is that of the debt of the pre-unification nations being assumed by the Global Nation, and a differential distribution of tax revenue _at the Global Governmental Level_ to pay down the debt of the regions that got the benefit of the pre-unification debt. This would allow the taxes owed to regional governments to be specifically allocated for their regions, while the 1/3 of the Global Nation's tax revenue that is distributed at the Global Governmental Level[^4] would be distributed to a proportionally greater degree to the creditor regions, and a proportionally lesser degree to the debtor regions until the balance between any two regions is paid off. The only aside to this is that debts from international organizations, such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, and the United Nations, would have to be forgiven, as they are from funds provided by the world's nations, and the Global Nation would be paying itself back. This is not a perfect solution, but without honoring the debts of the pre-unification nations, the Global Nation wouldn't be fully making good on the commitments of its parts and would foster a sense of arbitrary division within the Global Nation. Within years of the unification of the world's nations into a single entity, the debt of the pre-unification nations would be paid off--starting first with those owed to individuals and then moving on to pre-unification state-to-state debts--and the Global Nation would be free from this burden. Without this, the specter of unequal treatment would hang over the Global Nation, and the political and economic unity of the Global Nation would be in jeopardy.

The issue of patents and intellectual property being unified into a single common "market" is a thorny, but not insurmountable, issue. Returning to the example of German unification, both states were members of international intellectual property organizations, and so the patents of both states were largely able to be directly merged with priority given to the patent holder who filed first. The German Patent and Trade Mark Office described the process, "After 3 October 1990, the DPA had to ensure the processing of the IP rights existing or applied for in the GDR. For this purpose, 111,000 GDR patents, namely 97,000 economic patents (Wirtschaftspatente) and 14,000 exclusive patents (Ausschließungspatente), were integrated into a common register. German patents confer their holders the right to exclusive use of their invention for a limited period of time. In the GDR, such right of use was referred to as an exclusive patent ("30 Years of German Unity - two German patent offices merged to become one office" 2020)." This model is a useful one for the Global Nation, as some nations--despite international agreements on some standard patent and intellectual property practices--have separate classes or types of patents beyond the standards. A direct "translation" of these non-standard types into the standard types would be necessary, with the "right-of-way" going to the patent holder who filed first no matter which country they originally filed in. Terms of patents, conditions for filing, and other such details would be standardized but are out of the scope of this examination. A fair patent system is a critical part of ensuring a highly innovative economy by allowing inventors to recoup their research and development costs--something aided by the tax structure of the Global Nation--and by ensuring that true patent holders are rewarded for their work, the progress of the Global Nation will be accelerated.

The transition from a system of disparate, competitive nations based on unique political and economic systems to a single entity with a unified political and economic system is a monumental task, but not a reason to avoid the creation of the Global Nation. This process of combination, elimination, and restructuring would provide the Global Nation with a strong foundation for the future and would ensure that the Global Nation would hold the tools--and restrictions--necessary to ensure the achievement of its goals. It is undeniable that the legacy of the pre-unification nations would be felt in the Global Nation, but it is the responsibility of the Global Nation to ensure that these legacies are managed and then put to rest in a way that ensures the principles and reasons for the Global Nation's creation are upheld. The Global Nation would be a new entity, but ignoring or sweeping away the efforts and commitments of the pre-unification nations would be a disservice to the Global Nation and its citizens. Upon the completion of an orderly transition, the Global Nation would be in an unparalleled position historically to accelerate the progress of humanity, and to ensure that the future of the world is one of peace, prosperity, and liberty.

[^1]: This will be the sole exception to the precondition that military matters will not be discussed here - the military is a government institution, and as such, will be transferred to the Global Nation. How, if, and where the combined military forces of the world continue to operate is irrelevant to this examination.
[^2]: Though neither of these is a one-to-one allegory for the Global Nation's transition process, and history cannot be used to predict the future, they are useful for taking _principles_ from.
[^3]: The word regions here is used to avoid confusing post-unification areas and sub-governmental-organizational entities with the pre-unification nations acting of their own accord.
[^4]: The structure of government has not yet been defined, but it _will_ be defined that 1/3 of the Global Nation's tax revenue will be distributed at the Global Governmental Level, 1/3 at the local level, and 1/3 at the sub-global-regional level(which are _not_ analogous to the pre-unification nations).
