### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Political Problems to Address

#### Response

The pre-unification world of nation-states had many problems that the disunity, factionalism, and artificial division of these states did not help to solve. The formation of a Global Nation in accordance with the principles, procedures, and policies outlined in this examination would not immediately make these problems vanish. It is the express purpose of the Global Nation to hold sufficient safeguards to avoid using the state's monopoly on force and considerable resources to increase its power--even if only accidentally--to try to solve these problems. The Global Nation is so designed to eliminate the need for a state to solve these problems because the elimination of artificial barriers and an increase in the flow of information, resources, and talented individuals will allow for the self-organization of individuals and groups to solve these problems. These pre-existing, "humanity-wide" problems such as climate change, the obesity epidemic, and others similar in nature are not solvable by edict or dictate of the Global Nation, but by the choices and actions of individuals and groups within the Global Nation. However, there are specific problems that fundamentally affect the political structure of the Global Nation, inherent to the nature of its structure, that must be addressed to defend the Global Nation from its internal weaknesses.

Foremost among these problems is the lack of external competitors to keep the global nation in check through competition or to provide an external model of comparison. The Global Nation will, definitionally, be the only state in the world. There have been several cases in the history of states so asymmetrically powerful in their "scope" that they lose direction politically[^1] without an external force to balance against which fosters an internal culture of stagnation, cut-throat politicking, and societal malaise. This is seen most starkly in the late Roman Republic and for the whole of the Roman Empire almost immediately after the fall of Carthage, even when large or even existential threats appeared. Following the fall of Carthage, a sense of total superiority set in among Rome's political elite that they could master any threat that came to them, giving them a license to jockey for position even in controversion of the state's highest interests. While the culture of Ancient Rome is far different from that of any in the 21st-century world, the story of, "a population once devoted to national service and personal honor, was torn to shreds by growing wealth inequality, partisan gridlock, political violence and pandering politicians, and argues that the people of Rome chose to let their democracy die by not protecting their political institutions, eventually turning to the perceived stability of an emperor instead of facing the continued violence of an unstable and degraded republic (Daley 2018)" holds a lesson for the Global Nation. The ascension of Julius Caesar was not a solution to the societal malaise, but a symptom of it: so many crises had been allowed to fester, so many emergencies declared, and so many political norms--not to mention laws--broken that the false promise of a single man who could heal the wounds of the state was believed. The stakes for the Global Nation could not be higher, no political entity _could_ be more powerful on Earth, so every effort and every safeguard must be taken to prevent a similar fate.

What safeguards could be taken? Before enumerating specific mechanisms, it is important to note that at the formation of the Global Nation, the "founding class" of leaders should be encouraged towards the implementation of their own legal and normal restrictions on their power. Much as the first generation of American statesmen set the tone for over a hundred years of a generally minimal state leaving the citizenry to live without the spectre of government intervention, the first generation of leaders of the Global Nation should be encouraged to ferment an attitude of government restraint and self-restriction. First among these, and relating to the system of citizen participation and representation in the Global Nation, the amending of the Constitution of the Global Nation should be made as difficult as possible. While the desire for a government that is "light on its feet" and able to respond to the needs of the citizenry is a noble one, the Global Nation must be designed to be able to withstand the pressures of a political class--as one will inevitably, though unfortunately, form--that would seek to change the rules of the game to their advantage. A threshold of 80% in the legislature and an 80% popular referendum should encourage only necessary, common-sense changes to the Constitution. While this mechanism may slow the pace of governmental change and structural innovations in the Global Nation, this is dually compensated for by the much more nimble structure of citizen participation using e-voting measures, and the value of holding back an increase in the power of the state given the unparalleled stakes of the Global Nation.

Another safeguard that protects the Global Nation from the potential of internal rot in the political sphere from a lack of an external forcing function is another constitutional mechanism: a defined impossibility--save for it being overturned by an amendment--of taxes being raised beyond the fixed brackets, and collected in the manner defined in [III.3] which eliminates the possibility, so far as is possible, of the state entering the cycle of "bread and games" political patronage that symbolized the internally rotted Roman Republic. The Global Nation, while inevitably being led by a political class, must be designed from the outset to be as resistant to the efforts of the political class to use the state's resources to fight their own party or issue battles as possible. The state is the mechanism of governance for the entirety of humanity, it being misused for the smallest of political ends is a disservice to the citizenry they are nominally serving. By fixing the backstop of the tax system in place--it can always be lowered, which would of course be welcome--the Global Nation can avoid the downward spiral of so many pre-unification states that came before. The demands of the citizenry for redistribution of wealth from those who have it to those who do not use government power as the tool, envy by another name, or for the greater accumulation of wealth by the political class and their benefactors[^2] rob the spirit of personal responsibility and the dignity of the individual in favor of anger and resentment, foundationally weakening the Global Nation and in the end, making that same anger and resentment part of the bedrock of the state.

The Global Nation also faces serious criticism in the face of Cardwell's Law, that states can only be innovative--what he called "technically creative" most of the time--for limited periods, at which point the leading state will move at the pace of every other state. The function of the leading state is as the pack leader, the one that sets the most aggressive pace of development which other states mimic and compete with fractionally until the forces of political economy make it fall back to the mean rate of innovation, waiting for another to burst ahead. In the words of Joel Mokyr who has studied this phenomenon of political economy extensively, "Sooner or later the forces of conservatism, the "if-it-ain't-broke-don't-fix-it," the "if-God-had-wanted-us-to-fly-he-would-have-given-us-wings," and the "not-invented-here-so-it-can't-possibly-work" people take over and manage through a variety of legal and institutional channels to slow down and if possible stop technological creativity altogether. Technological leaders like 17th-century Holland or early 19th-century Britain lost their edge and eventually became followers (Mokyr 1994)." This presents a thoroughly existential threat to the basis of the Global Nation's mission, rapid economic growth to increase the well-being of humanity as a result of the unimpeded flow of information, talent, and resources to increase the efficiency of the spontaneous organization of individuals and groups to areas of maximum benefit. With the talent flow of the entire world, the startups of the Global Nation would be both far more efficient in innovation per individual, while also having a considerably wider market to sell to. If this premise is flawed by Cardwell's Law, the Global Nation would be holding humanity back from its potential, not advancing it. While poking holes in Cardwell's Law and declaring it null, and not an issue, may suffice at the most basic level, Cardwell's law is symbolic of the structures necessary to combat the negative potential effects of the gargantuan civilizational inertia that the Global Nation possesses.

In part, the mechanisms defined earlier to avoid the increase of scope in government: the difficulty of amending the Constitution, and a fixed tax system expressly designed to incentivize innovation do help to counter this problem. However, some part of the solution to Cardwell's Law is to be found in a mechanism of government that does not outrageously distort the price system of the market and does not attempt to pick winners and losers in the economy. The use of e-voting and public referendums outlined in [IV.3] raises the possibility of referendums deciding on prizes for inventions/achievements desired by the citizenry of any level of government. The citizens of that region would not be the only ones getting the benefit of it, so if a town funded a prize for a new type of solar panel, the entire Global Nation would benefit from the invention, making the funding/reward somewhat asymmetrically disadvantaging the region that funded it, but this could be counteracted by the increased economic activity in that region from the invention. This mechanism, not writing into law who the winner is but what the winner will get--including the standard reward for the invention of new technology, a temporary monopoly on the technology in the form of a patent--incentivizes the innovations directly desired by the citizenry, uses taxpayer funds to get technologies and improvements without favoring established companies, and does not drastically distort the price system of the market because the government is not purchasing the technology, but simply rewarding the inventor. This mechanism, applied at the highest or lowest levels of government, with corresponding rewards and votes from the citizenry, would be a powerful tool to combat Cardwell's Law. In a general sense, a government that abides by the general principle of not picking winners and losers in the economy, but rewarding those who achieve goals deemed worthy by the citizenry and its representatives, would be a government that would be able to avoid the stagnation of Cardwell's Law and ensure continued, rapid economic and technological growth.

Tyranny of the majority, defined by Oxford Reference as, "If the majority rules, what is to stop it from expropriating the minority, or from tyrannizing it in other ways by enforcing the majority's religion, language, or culture on the minority ("Tyranny of the Majority" n.d.)," is a problem fundamental to democracy in any form. Structurally, it is mitigated to a certain extent by federal systems that divide power into more local majorities to allow for sectors of differing majority opinions, and by representative democracy by allowing for the election of representatives who are accountable by elections to the majority opinion of their constituents. Despite this, on the scale of the Global Nation, and with as many differences of religion, language, culture, geography, industry, and other factors as there are in the world, the tyranny of the majority is a serious concern. The Global Nation must hold a fundamental organizational antagonism to oppression by government monopoly on force, and in doing so ensure that the will of the people is still heard. The mechanisms for this have already been described, but deserve to be expanded upon, including the smaller role of government in general, meaning that any tyranny has a considerably smaller area of effect; the objectively scaleable nature of the Global Nation's governmental organization combines the benefits of a federal system--diversity of opinion--with the benefits of a unitary system--standardization of governmental organization--which allows for the citizenry to have a voice in local, regional, and global matters and have their voice distinctly heard; and the use of e-voting and public referendums to allow for the citizenry to have a direct say in the laws and policies that govern them. The Global Nation, by its nature, is a government that is designed to be as responsive to the will of the people as possible, while incorporating a philosophy of individual rights and responsibilities that is designed to protect the individual from the state being co-opted by those seeking to impose their own beliefs on the wider population.

As examined in [III.1], the economic philosophy of the Global Nation, the role of government in the economy, and more generally in the lives of the citizenry, is to be kept to as far a minimum as is feasible. The Global Nation is designed to act as a vehicle for the greater voluntary coordination of individuals to solve their problems, something not best facilitated by the government using the individual's resources in the expansion and perpetuation of a paternalistic state. This original function helps to minimize the potential of a tyranny of the majority because the government, in most spheres of life, has little to no influence: the personal lives of individuals are expressly unregulated by the state save for the most basic of laws--child labor, age of consent, etc.--and the economic lives of individuals are left up to the choices of the individual, not a central authority, to decide. For example, an example of an area where a majority might want to enforce their will on a minority in the cultural realm such as language, the Global Nation would have no power to do so. A national language is, as a function of the many hundreds of languages spoken in the world, not defined in the constitution of the Global Nation, and so only an amendment at the 80% threshold at the Federal Level could change that. More than this, it would be clear to the citizenry that no one but such a local majority in one region--those who spoke only that language--would be rewarded by such a change, and so the incentive for a speaker of another language to vote for such a change would hard to find. The Global Nation, by carefully defining the scope of government and by using its wide diversity of opinion to its advantage, can minimize the potential for tyranny of the majority to take hold.

The objectively scaleable organizational structure of the Global Nation, as described in [IV.2], is a powerful tool in itself to combat the potential negative effects of a tyranny of the majority. By allowing for a modicum of regional autonomy at the local and provincial levels to account for the specifics of local culture, geography, and industry, all while maintaining a fundamentally similar structure of government at all levels, the Global Nation can allow for the citizenry to have--as long as it is within the scope of the Global Nation's constitution--the government policies and programs that they desire, and avoid the ones they do not. While inevitably _some_ laws and programs at any given level of government will be unpopular or undesired by a portion of the citizenry, the Global Nation's structure and system of citizen participation allows for the citizenry to directly act to change those laws and programs without having to rely solely on the election of representatives to do so. In doing so, the Global Nation lives up to its mandate to be as responsive to the direct will of the people as possible, and in doing so allow the citizenry to go about their lives with the least amount of interference from the state.

#### Footnotes

[^1]: Whether this starts from the social realm and moves to the political, or the reverse, is irrelevant here as the political _ramifications_ of this are what interests this examination. The Global Nation cannot mandate a social conception of the world, but it can construct political institutions to remedy this potential problem.
[^2]: While efforts to eliminate the wealthy and powerful from acting as benefactors and patrons of the political class are described in [III.5] as part of the Global Nation's anti-corruption policy, which will be vigorously pursued, structural mechanisms to protect the Global Nation should these efforts fail are a necessary final protection.
