### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Taxation Structures for the Global Nation

#### From Outline:

```markdown
III.3: Discussion of taxation structures, and how to balance them against huge regional differences in both income AND cost of living.

- III.3.a: Denmark vs USA vs Canada taxation and government spending.
  - III.3.a.a: High-taxation for the large government services for individual comfort, but poor industry/innovation/entrepreneurship(low social mobility as differnece between rich and poor is small in absolute terms, but tax rates go up dramatically)
  - III.3.a.b: Low-taxation for a small amount of government services for individual comfort, but a large industrial/innovative base, and a large amount of entrepreneurship(comparatively high social mobility).
  - III.3.a.c: Mid-taxation for the a smaller amount of government services for individual comfort, but a respectable industrial and innovative economic base.
- III.3.b: A system of objectively scalable government [In it's taxation elements, it is a whole government reform plan but that goes in IV.5]
  - III.3.b.a: A Minimally Graduated Progressive Tax, where it is a scaled bracket system based on three major percentages of income, with those brackets being relative to the cost of living and average income of the region.

Nation comparisons will be somewhat brief, but will be used to illustrate the range of possibilities in taxation structures and their trade-offs. There is no optimal taxation structure, but choosing one that is _in line with the economic philosophy of the global nation_ is the key here. This is simply a "child" of the economic philosophy which has been previously established.
```

<!-- Intro -->

> "Our new Constitution is now established, everything seems to promise it will be durable; but, in this world, nothing is certain except death and taxes." - Benjamin Franklin (NCC Staff, 2023)

In seeking to establish a global nation, how it will be organized, its economic philosophy, its political structures, what the social and cultural impacts will be, and how it will be governed, all of these come as downstream implementations--or not--of how the Global Nation's government will be funded. Perhaps no question is more fiercely debated than taxes in the modern political discourse around the world--and it is no less important in the context of the Global Nation. This section will discuss the various taxation structures of Denmark, the United States, and Canada, and how they balance the social services they provide with the economic growth, freedom, and innovation they foster. The relative merits of ranking these against each other is not a burden this section will bear, but instead illustrate which of these goals most align in the abstract and in implementation with the economic philosophy of the Global Nation.

<!-- Taxation in Denmark -->

Denmark is renowed in many circles as a nation with a high standard of living, a strong social safety net, and a high level of government services. This is a direct result of their government's economic philosophy emphasizing large government services for individual comfort. This unavoidably has a cost[^1], and Denmark's tax rates are among the highest in the world, with specifically high rates on personal income, sales tax, and a 25% value-added tax (PWC, 2024). The result of this has been a high median standard of living, low poverty rates, and a high level of happiness among its citizens--ranking second in the world behind Finland, a nation with a simlar economic philosophy (World Population Review, 2024). However, this high level of taxation has stifled industry to a large extent, with low social mobility and a lack of entrepreneurship and innovation. The few major industries in Denmark have had to move up-market in order to stay competitive with other nations with lower tax rates, lower wages, and more innovation. Technology imports are high, and services make up a disproportionate number of jobs, 78.81% in 2022(Statista), relative to their GDP, 66.31% in 2022(Statista). This is a direct result of the high tax rates and the lack of innovation and entrepreneurship that comes as a consequence of that choice. When the difference between rich and poor is small in absolute terms, but tax rates go up dramatically, there is little incentive to innovate, to take risks, or to start a business. Moreover, those who have a natural inclination to do so(or to work in high-tech industries) frequently find better job opportunities, higher wages, and lower taxes in nations with differing economic philosophies. Denmark was already a comparatively well-developed, high-income nation when it adopted this economic philosophy, and it has been able to sustain it as a result, however as a model for a Global Nation, it is not ideal as the entire world under the Global Nation would need to start and maintain a rate of rapid economic growth which simply isn't feasible under this economic philosophy, nor is it compatible with the economic philosophy of the Global Nation previously established.

<!-- Taxation in Canada -->

Canada presents an example of a half-way point between Denmark and the United States in terms of taxation and government services. Canada has a "mid-level" taxation, and representative economic philosophy, which tries to balance social services with the insurance of continued domestic innovation and industry. How succesfully Canada has achieved this cannot be determined, as a number of external factors assist and detract from this goal: it is important to briefly examine these as the world as a whole would, under the Gloal Nation, hold sway over all of these external factors. Prime among these factors is proximity to the industrial, innovative powerhouse of the United States. This leads to a relatively easy flow of capital, technology, and labor between the two nations(U.S. Department of State), and has allowed Canada to leverage this proximity to maintain technological and industrial competitiveness despite higher taxes and a smaller skilled labor base. This is counteracted by the large number of skilled workers(specifically in high-tech or industrially relevant fields) who leave Canada for the United States, where job opportunities may be more plentiful, wages higher, and taxes lower(Singer, R. Colin). Critically, this technological innovation accelerated by Canadian expats in the United States does flow back into Canada, but certainly not to the same degree as if it were done domestically--which, as a function of proximity to the United States and the economic philosophy of Canada is significantly smaller in scale. Another factor here is natural resources: Canada has large oil, natural gas, and mineral reserves which have been a major boon to Canadian industry and government coffers. These resources have provided a positive external boost to Canada's economy, allowing for a somewhat greater allocation of resources to social programs than otherwise would be possible. However, these--unlike some other nations--are not the primary driver of the economy nor does it fund seemingly infinite social services.

As specifically pertains to taxation, Canada has a progressive tax system, with roughly average rates of taxation on personal income compared to other OECD nations(Taxing Wages, 2024 Canada), it has higher capital gains taxes which are set to climb further, and a lower barrier at which the highest tax bracket is reached, and a 12.4% Standard VAT rate(OECD). On average, this has led to a relatively stable economy, a high level of labor force participation, and a respectable level of innovation and industry. However this has all been achieved while in continual deficit spending, and a fairly high level of government debt without the economic growth to match. In addition, Canada has a poor and worsening productivity problem, "Back in 1984, the Canadian economy was producing 88% of the value generated by the US economy per hour. That’s not great. But by 2022, Canadian productivity had fallen to just 71% of that of the United States. Over this same period of time, Canada also fell behind our G7 peers, with only Italy seeing a larger decline in productivity relative to the United States."(Rogers, Carolyn). This is a direct result of the economic philosophy of Canada which through its taxation and government spending has not been able to foster the innovation and industry necessary to keep up with the United States, and has actively decelerated higher-tech industry and innovation. Canada's economic philosophy is one of balance, and it is on a high-wire act between the United States and Denmark, and it is not clear that it will be able to maintain this balance in the long term. Simply put, it is being thoroughly outcompeted by the United States in terms of personal opportunity: why would a Canadian who went to an elite university(subsidizied by the Canadian government) stay in Canada when they could make more money, have more job opportunities, and pay less in taxes in the United States? The only justification for doing so is a sense of national pride or the social services provided by the government, but as more of the highest productivity talent leaves Canada, the less likely it is that the next generation will stay. While Canada has maintained a respectable level of industry and innovation, and as rapid economic and productivity growth, as well as personal opportunity are the key tenets of the economic philosophy of the Global Nation, Canada is not a directly applicable model for the Global Nation.

<!-- Taxation in the USA, include relevant parts of Tax Foundation plan(just to illustrate difficulties in compliance) -->

The United States of America, while not representing a Nozickean minimal state, holds _comparatively_ few government social services relative to other highly developed nations. As much as any state can be said to hold a single economic philosophy, the United States holds one--and a political culture around it--of greater personal freedoms over government services, though as a function of the comparatively low taxes there is continuous political pressure to increase government services. Despite admittedly high government debt, and disproportionate expenditures on military spending compared to other nations, the United States has maintained low levels of taxation: a tax-to-GDP ratio of 27.7% in 2023(OECD), 6.3% lower than the OECD average. While this cannot be directly correlated as the whole reason that the United States remains the world's largest economy, and predominant innovative power, it certainly plays a notable part. In addition, the structure of how taxation works in the United States is a major factor in its economic success: the United States has a relatively low corporate tax rate and no VAT, making entrepreneurship and consumption far more attractive. Even in the comparatively emphasized taxation of personal income, the United States holds lower than the OECD average with a tax wedge for an average married worker with two children at 19.7% in 2023, compared to the OECD average of 25.7(OECD). The United States has a welfare system, but it is far less generous than other nations, and is primarily focused on the elderly and the poor. This isseen by the 24% percent of tax revenue that is spent on social services, compared to the 29% average across the rest of OECD nations(OECD).

It is also important to note that due to the more distinct federalist structure of the United States, the states themselves have a large amount of control over their own taxation and spending, and this has led to a wide variety of taxation structures and government services across the nation. This creates a gradient of states more desireable for entrepreneurship and business and states more desireable for social services. Unfortunately, the United States has a tax code that is notoriously difficult--and economically inefficient--to comply with. In the words of the Tax Foundation, who proposed a tax reform plan in 2023, "While any one provision may be justified as supportive of one group or another, like an incumbent industry or an established subset of taxpayers, the accumulation of complicated preferences combined with high income tax rates is not supportive of newcomers or new sources of economic growth. Rather, it suppresses the dynamic forces of a healthy economy, reducing incentives to work, save, and invest(McBride, William et al)." According to their numbers, 1.4% of GDP--$313 billion per year--is lost to tax compliance costs, which is an obvious, and significant, drag on the economy. Their proposal, "Details and Analysis of a Tax Reform Plan for Growth and Opportunity", draws heavily from Estonia's tax system, which is known for its simplicity and efficiency. This would be structured around, "A flat tax of 20 percent on individual income combined with a generous family allowance to protect low-income households. All other major credits, deductions, and preferences would be eliminated except the current-law Earned Income Tax Credit (EITC), a more stable Child Tax Credit (CTC), and tax-preferred savings accounts ... A distributed profits tax of 20 percent in lieu of our current overly complex regime for taxing domestic and foreign profits earned by corporations and pass-through businesses ... [and] Elimination of taxes at death and simplified treatment of capital gains to remove the burden of unnecessary compliance and administrative costs. (McBride, William et al)" While the Tax Foundation's plan is not a direct model for what this examination will propose for the Global Nation, it is illustrative of the difficulties in compliance and the economic inefficiencies of the current tax code in the United States.

In a general sense, the United States has been able to maintain a high level of economic growth, innovation, and industry, while providing a respectable level of social services. Despite this, the necessity for the provision of many of those social services--such as subsidized health care--is only necessary due to the high cost of health care in the United States, which is a direct result of the government's involvement in the health care industry, "For decades, total spending on medical care was about 3 to 5 percent of national income. It is now 12 or 13 percent and rising. THe acceleration of spending dates from the introduction of Medicare and Medicaid in 1965. ... I cited figures on hospital cost per patient day, adjusted for inflation. The cost was twenty-six times as high in 1989 as it had been in 1945($545 compared with $21); personnel per occupied hospital bed was seven times as high(4.6 compared with 0.7), while the number of hospital beds per 1,000 population had been cut in half(from 10.3 to 4.9) ... Those seven times as many people per hospital bed are clearly not people who are attending to patients; they are mostly filling out government requirements (Friedman, Milton)."[^2] While this is not an examination of how the Global Nation's regulation will be different from the United States, it is important to note that much of those taxes to social services in the United States _could_ be made unnecessary by a more efficient and less overly-regulated industry. Despite all of these negatives, the United States remains the most innovative and economically powerful nation in the world, and as such points as a top arrow of a trend-line of taxation and government services that the Global Nation should follow.

<!-- Taxation as a window into model of objectively scalable government, which will be discussed more widely in political structures as part of federalism vs unitary; parlimentary vs direct. -->

This examination of the taxation structures of Denmark, the United States, and Canada, illustrates the range of possibilities in taxation structures and their trade-offs. There is no optimal taxation structure, but choosing one that is in line with the economic philosophy of the Global Nation is the key here as the taxation structure of a government provides a window into the model of government that it is, and the actions it can or will take. The economic philosophy of the Global Nation is one of rapid economic growth, innovation, and industry--both as a means to ensuring political stability with a huge disparity in income and cost of living, and as an end in itself--and the taxiation structure of the Global Nation should reflect and accelerate these goals. Such a tax could take the form of a "Minimally Graduated Progressive Tax"(from here referred to as MGPT), where it is a scaled bracket system based on three major percentages of income, with those brackets being relative to the average income of the Global Nation subdivision. With only three brackets for companies and personal income, 12-15-18%, the MGPT would be simple to comply with, and produce a significantly smaller tax burden than almost any other high-development country while still providing sufficient funding for the operations of government in-line with the economic philosophy of the Global Nation. To ensure that a taxpayer--company or individual--is not penalized for earning more money, the MGPT would be structured such that you pay the relative tax rate on all income up to the top of that barrier: i.e. 12% on all income until the cap on the bottom bracket, 15% on all income until the cap on the middle bracket, and 18% on all income over that. This would ensure that the tax burden is not a disincentive to earning more money, and would provide a stable and predictable tax environment for business, individuals, and government. The virtues of the MGPT in specific application to a Global Nation is that even if the cost of living and average income of the region is significantly lower than the average of the Global Nation, local government services can still be effected in a similar manner because the cost of providing infrastructure, defense, and other government services scales down nearly-linearly(though not perfectly) with the lower tax revenue. At the highest level, the Global Nation's government--not a regional subdivision--would be able to slightly "pick up" the lowest regions of the Global Nation, as a tiny shift in tax revenue from the highest earning regions would provide a significant boost to the lowest earning regions, and its positive externality on the economies of the highest earning regions would be significant due to increased demand and economic activity.

While a flat sales tax could be a valid replacement for this, the systemically regressive nature of a sales tax would be a disincentive to consumption, and it doesn't work well with high-service economies, "When the first state sales taxes emerged in response to dire state and local revenue needs during the Great Depression, tangible goods accounted for most of personal consumption. Most states chose not to apply sales tax to services because they would be more difficult to administer, and such exemptions weren’t nearly as expensive. Today, services account for about 70% of all personal consumption, and most of those transactions are not subject to sales tax. (Brainerd, Jackson)." This is magnified by the fact that only some regions of the Global Nation would be highly service-based, and others would be highly industrial, making taxing one more than the other a notable inequalizer.

Another system which _could_ prove a systemic incentive to innovation, industry, and growth could be a Georgist Land Value Tax, that land should be the fundamentally taxed resource, and promotes development without recorse to external speculation or government intervention. More than this, the most efficient use of that land is promoted as owning more land than you use/need is economically discouraged while developing that land as highly as possible is encouraged as you are not taxed for that improvement. However, problems with this system are in its application, not in theoretical principle. As Dick Netzer in his report on the subject notes, "the property tax usually provides negligible revenues, because of low nominal rates, low and inaccurate valuations, and poor collection experience. Almost everywhere, the basic requisites of good administration are lacking(Netzer, Dick)." While the issues of low nominal rates can be argued--perhaps correctly--the issues of innacurate valuation and poor collection, as well as the difficulty and inneficency of assessing the value of the unimproved land make the mechanism for implementing this tax system difficult to conceive or base the Global Nation's policy on. In addition, the huge regional distortions between highly industrialized, urbanized regions of the Global Nation and those poorly means that the value of unimproved land would not be as consistent a source of tax revenue for some regions of the world as less of it has been improved or utilized at all.

With those alternative systems proposed, the natural question of why corporations from lower income subdivisions who would be far into the top bracket in their normal operating region wouldn't relocate/re-headquarter themselves to a wealthier subdivision in order to be taxed at a lower rate comes to the fore. The question is in large part based on a false premise, as companies already do this to a far greater degree--next to no taxes--via current nations acting as tax shelters for global operations. From the perspective of the Global Nation, there is no escape for tax-avoidance, as there is nowhere else to go nor the disincentive to hold on to cash as a result of the MGPT only taxing income once, and not taxing retained earnings or continually held wealth. While it isn't good for the highest-earning corporation in a low-income region to try to minimize their tax burden by moving to a high-income region, any action of compulsion to "hold" corporations in place would be a disincentive to growth, innovation, and industry, and would be a direct contradiction of the economic philosophy of the Global Nation. In addition, just re-headquartering does not remove the need for the corporation to operate in the region where it is making money, and that operation does include paying employees, who then pay taxes. While in an ideal world the corporation would keep its headquarters in the region where it primarily operates, and pays that highest-rate of tax, even if they flee to a region where they would be in the middle or bottom bracket, taxes are still paid compared to the current system of near-total tax avoidance by many corporations today.

<!-- Minimally Graduated Progressive Tax, flat tax from 12 to 18% on income based on bracket, bottom third 12%, middle third 15%, top third 18. You pay for each bracket if you are in the top third so that you don't go up 3% based on +$1 in income. Brackets are relative to the cost of living and average income of the region. While 12% of income in a poorer region may lead to a considerably smaller amount of money than 12% of income in a richer region, due to the lower cost of living and lower average income, local government services can still be effected in a similar manner and some manner of "pick me up" at the highest level will be inherently built into the system. -->

<!-- Benefits in terms of stability, labor force participation, innovation, economic growth, and citizen well-being(health care despite not being government funded, life expectancy) -->

[^1]: Unless it can be funded directly from the government's own revenue, like in Norway or Saudi Arabia. However, Denmark--while having some oil and gas reserves--is not a petrostate and does not have "black gold" to fund extremely generous social services.
[^2]: The figure of rising percentages of national income spent on health care is the well-subjected to scrutiny, as the number of factors that go into the cost of health care are numerous and complex(and the lifestyle, diet choices, etc have not remained constant). However, Friedman's point regarding hospital-bed, and personnel ratios remains entirely valid separate from this scrutiny.
