### Andrew Garber

### Independent Study

### Elimination of Trade Barriers Case Study

> Outline

```

III.4. What would be the benefits of the elimination of trade barriers? What percentage of global GDP is lost to the frictions of trade barriers?

- III.4.a: Zero-sum vs positive-sum decisions, and how the elimination of trade barriers would be positive-sum for the world as a whole.
  - III.4.a.a: Shift from an externally competitive economy with each nation trying to out-compete each other to get the largest slice of the pie, with large companies being protected by their states, to an internally competitive economy which will increase the size of the pie for everyone and not have state protectionism of enterprises.
  - III.4.a.b: Friedman "Free to Choose".
- III.4.b: German Zollverein, its benefits, and how it was a precursor to the even greater economic gains under German unification.
  - III.4.b.a: Quotes from "Bismarck: A Life" by Jonathan Steinberg.
  - III.4.b.b: Quotes from "The Industrial Revolutionaries" by Gavin Weightman.
- III.4.c: No brain drain, because only the people with specialized professions would move(and they will anyway). production of those "brains" now spreads more widely.

```

#### Case Study

The elimination of trade barriers, going hand-in-hand with the free movement of people, is one of the key reasons for giving up the world's current system of individual nation-states and forming a Global Nation. Global trade, and its direct corollary, human well-being, is significantly hampered by the segmentation and fracturing of markets into fiefdoms to be guarded for local political gain. This has, throughout history, been the rule of the day, and even in the remembered hay-day of free trade in the later stages of the Cold War, protectionism and artificial trade barriers were constant, "basic realities did not deter the Reagan administration from severely restricting steel imports from 1982 onward. In 1984, Congress enacted a trade bill that contained a short-supply provision intended, as a congressional conference report noted, “to protect domestic purchasers of steel products from undue hardship due to an inability to obtain adequate supplies from domestic sources.” ... Reagan’s steel quotas destroyed far more jobs than they saved. Professor Hans Mueller estimated that the quotas resulted in thirteen jobs lost in steel-using industries for each steelworker’s job saved. The Institute for International Economics estimated that quotas were costing the equivalent of $750,000 a year for each steel job saved. A 1984 Federal Trade Commission study estimated that steel quotas cost the US economy $25 for each additional dollar of profit netted by American steel producers (Bovard, James)." This example, heinous on its own, is even more so when the global perspective--how much economic loss to big Japanese and Korean steel producers, how much economic loss to the global economy for not being able to buy American goods made with cheaper steel--is taken into account. We hold free trade within nations, between provinces and states, towns and cities, as a given, but the moment a border is crossed it becomes the most contentious issue. The frequent argument is that jobs are lost because labor conditions, environmental laws, or other political-economic factors make producing elsewhere more worthwhile. However, is that not true of environmental laws, labor conditions, and a variety of other factors between two cities or between two states? The blatant hypocrisy of the argument is that it is not about the conditions of the workers or the environment, but about holding a bargaining chip that can be thrown to the passes or used at the high-stakes table of international politics. In the Global Nation, saved from these petty squabbles, the market would operate far more efficiently for lack of artificial trade barriers; the creation of new goods, products, and services would be greatly accelerated and the unquestionable ability of industry to raise the level of human dignity and well-being would be unleashed. Much as letting the brightest minds in any field from across the world harness their gifts and talents in a new, more efficient, and more productive way, so too would the Global Nation's definitional lack of trade barriers allow the spontaneous forces of industry to do the same. If one needs proof, one may start with the American steel industry, "If protection actually produced competitiveness, American steel manufacturers would have become world leaders long ago. Steel tariffs are one of the most brazen anti-industrial policies, a lasting warning of the incorrigibility of politicians chasing votes and campaign contributions. The future of trade policy is crucial to the future of liberty. Every restriction on a foreign seller is a control over an American buyer. It should not be a federal crime to charge low steel prices to American manufacturers (Bovard, James)."

<!-- We can justify free trade as the natural order, and protectionism as contrary to this and just attack it for what it is. -->

Adam Smith upended the mercantilist(protectionism as a general philosophy instead of just a tool) order of his day when he said, "What is prudence in the conduct of every private family, can scarce be folly in that of a great kingdom. If a foreign country can supply us with a commodity cheaper than we ourselves can make it, better buy it off them with some part of the produce of our own industry, employed in a way in which we have some advantage(Adam Smith)," as part of his _Wealth of Nations_. At a fundamental level, irrespective of differences in economic philosophy, the elimination of trade barriers is a positive-sum decision in allowing _individuals_ to specialize in what they are competitively advantaged in, trade for what they are not, and through cooperate in spontaneous organization increase the total sum of wealth and prosperity available to humanity[^1]. Former Congressman Ron Paul put it more plainly, "If I had to grow my own food, make my own clothes, build my own house, and teach my own children, our family’s living standard would plummet to a subsistence, or below-subsistence, level. But if I practice medicine, and allow others with more talent as farmers, builders or tailors to do what they do best, we are all better off: Precious capital and labor are directed to the areas of most productivity, and through voluntary trading, we all benefit. This principle works just as effectively on a national and worldwide scale, (Paul, Ron)." We are allowing David Riccardo's comparative advantage to work its magic according to its very nature[^2] when we allow individuals to trade and organize freely, and with the total collapse of barriers propping up non-competitive enterprises, the capital and labor that was being wasted on them will funnel into more productive and efficient enterprises. This fundamental change in world economic framing means that the economy, for individuals and greater society, will switch from being 'externally competitive'--trying to economically bludgeon each other to get the largest slice of the pie--to 'internally competitive'--trying to increase the size of the pie for everyone, and in doing so increase the size of their slice. This mindset shift, that economic power isn't a tool for political power, but a tool _of its nature_ of increasing human well-being, is the key to understanding the economic benefits of the Global Nation, starting with the elimination of trade barriers.

A historical example that exemplifies the terrific horrors of trade barriers between political entities, and what benefits can come from their elimination, than Germany before and after the implementation of the Zollverein. The Zollverein was, technically, the first inter-state customs union in the world, and a precursor to the singular customs union that would become Prussia(later the German Empire) once full unification happened in the late 19th century. The parallels between the Zollverein, and the Global Nation are striking--if not perfect--and provide a window into predicting the future through a similar thread of humanity's past. The historical context necessary for an understanding of the necessity of forming a unified customs union in Germany(initiated by Prussia) was the continual splintering of German states under the rule of the Holy Roman Empire. Following the Napoleonic Wars, the German states were left in a state of economic ruin, and the number of trade barriers between the two geographically close states was staggering, "As early as the fourteenth century in England an Englishman referred to the multiplicity of customs in Germany as _miram Germanorum insaniam_[the strange madness of the Germans]. The comment is equally applicable to the state of affairs at the end of the eighteenth century, when some three hundred rulers, virtually unchecked by any central authority, levied such customs and excise as they pleased ... It is estimated that in 1790 there was some eighteen hundred customs frontiers in Europe(Henderson, W.O)." This state of affairs, producing, "much the same effect as ligatures which prevent the free circulation of blood (Weightman, Gavin)," harmed the economic well-being of German-states and their people, led to significant underdevelopment relative to its rapidly industrializing neighbors France, Britain, and Austria[^3], and caused continual tension between the states. The Zollverein was an attempt to solve all of these problems in one fell swoop, and largely did so, "During 1833, Prussia managed to get agreement from a large part of the old Holy Roman Empire, including List's [Friedrich List] Würtemberg, to join a customs union comprising fourteen states and 23.5 million people. At dawn on 1 January 1834 the wagons began to roll through open toll gates and within a few years the _Zollverein_ was judged to be a tremendous success in promoting commerce and industry (Weightman, Gavin)." This is not to say that the Zollverein was a perfect solution, nor was it a total juggernaut of a free trade philosophy, "In reality, the _Zollverein_ underwent many adjustments during its existence and was both a protectionist measure in relation to those outside it, and a free trade measure for those within its boundaries. It was certainly an economic success, with revenue from duties nearly doubling between 1834 and 1845 (Weightman, Gavin)." This must be tempered by two qualifiers: the first is that the Zollverein was implemented in an era when trade over significant distance was only for the most valuable of goods, and the second is that the Zollverein paved the way--economically, before politically--of Bismarck's unification of German states. The existing economic ties between the states, the increased economic well-being of the people, and the increased market range for industry to sell to, all contributed to the political unification of Germany.

The parallels between the free-trade customs union of the Zollverein and the economic growth it inspired, followed by German unification and the economic juggernaut it became, and the Global Nation are notable. At the beginning of the 19th century, the surrounding states of Austria, France, and Britain were all far more industrialized than the disparate German states, and by 1890 it had surpassed France in steel production and was catching Britain. By 1914, Germany was second only to the United States in total economic size and held outsized economic and political influence across Europe due to its high level of industrialization. Entrepreneurs, capital, and labor were free to move across the German states, and the number of companies being founded--something less common than in Britain or the United States due to a state-centric societal structure--exploded, "The _Gründerjahre_ ('founders’ years'), as the years after unification were called, saw 857 new companies founded with a capital of 1.4 billion talers—more new companies and investment in the private sector than in the previous 20 years. Dividends reached an astounding 12.4 percent. The railway system almost doubled in size between 1865 and 1875. (Britannica)." This boom in economic activity, and the increase in human prosperity it inspired, "An immediate consequence of expanding industrial employment was a sharp drop in emigration; from an average of 130,000 people per year in the 1880s, the outflow dropped to 20,000 per year in the mid-1890s (Britannica)," is a direct result of the elimination of trade barriers and the free movement of capital and labor. As could be predicted, as internal political struggles forced through greater protectionism in the last years of the 19th century and the pre-WWI years, the economic growth of Germany slowed and the political situation became more tense. The Global Nation, by its very nature and its economic philosophy, would structurally not allow for the same kind of protectionism that Germany fell into and would allow for the continual explosive rate of economic growth that Germany experienced in the 19th century.

The free movement of people comes hand-in-hand with the elimination of those political boundaries--manifested as trade barriers, or borders--in the rapid economic growth that the Global Nation would experience. A part of the Zollverein not previously mentioned was that after a time--it wasn't an immediate part of the treaties--the restrictions on the movement of people were steadily decreased and following the unification of Germany, the movement of people was unrestricted internally. This allowed for the brightest minds in any field to congregate in the most economically productive areas for their particular talents--Essen and the Ruhr Valley for steel and machining, Berlin for politics, culture, and the arts, and so on--which increases the efficiency of market function. When individuals have the opportunity to congregate with others in their same fields, learn from each other, work together, find capital and labor to work with, and so on, the rate at which new goods, products, and services are created and brought to market is greatly accelerated. This was dramatic in Germany alone, the Ruhr Valley was likely the highest single concentration of industry in the world over such a large area, but when applied over the whole world the potential market efficiencies are staggering. It is impossible to predict where and why the next great center of industry, technology, or art will be, but there is no reason to suggest that a single hub will control them all. More likely, a greater number of people in a specific field will congregate in a few main hubs, but the number of these sector-specific hubs will be far greater. For example, Silicon Valley encompasses technology and software as a monolith, but in the future, it may be that there are 10 or 20 Silicon Valleys across the world, each specializing in a _specific_ field of technology or software. This holds good historical precedent from Germany, China with its multiple semi-specialized economic zones[^4], the United States with its organic economic hubs semi-devoted to specific fields(Seattle, San Francisco, New York, Detroit, etc.), and many others throughout history, and the Global Nation would only accelerate this process.

The elimination of trade barriers in combination, and accelerated by, the free movement of people, is a key downstream effect of the economic philosophy of the Global Nation and its political nature as a single entity. The benefits of this elimination are numerous but can be summed up as the increase in the total sum of wealth and prosperity available to humanity, and the increase in the rate of new goods, products, and services being created and brought to market, all due to the minimization of artificial governmental barriers to market function and the free movement of capital, labor, goods, and ideas. The historical example of the Zollverein and the economic growth it inspired, followed by German unification closely parallel the path this examination envisions for the Global Nation. Germany went from a series of squabbling, disparate states that were being territorially hemmed in and economically overpowered by its neighbors, to a unified, industrial juggernaut that took a commanding place on the world stage in the realms of economic, military, and political power; all within less than a century due to greater, and then total, unification. The Global Nation, being unthreatened and unthreatening to external powers due to their being none and the total nature of its reach, would be able to expand upon the economic growth of Germany but on a global scale.

[^1]: It is critical that the reader understand that in speaking of individuals instead of largely political groups this is a direct downstream effect of the economic philosophy of the global nation. The government's structural role in the economy is to ensure that the market is free and fair, not to pick winners and losers, or play the game itself. Individuals trade, individuals, produce, and individuals consume, and lumping them into groups of "America buys $x of cotton" is contrary to the vision and nature of the Global Nation's role and purpose.
[^2]: Much of Riccardo's actual philosophy of comparative advantage is based on a labor theory of value, but it works just the same in a macroeconomic sense with the subjective theory of value.
[^3]: To a lesser degree, the Habsburgs were not nearly as industrialized as France, Britain, or the United States but due to the comparatively centralized nature of the Austrian Empire--which says something about the German States--they were more industrialized than the German states.
[^4]: This was a result of central planning which is contrary to the economic philosophy of the Global Nation, but was dramatically improved and expanded upon by organic capitalist elements even in the face of central planning.
